Hence home you idle crea- -tures get you home
Is this a hol- -i- -day? What know you not
Be- -ing me- -chan- -i- -cal you ought not walk
Up- -on a la- -bor- -ing day with- -out the sign
Of your pro- -fes- -sion? Speak what trade art thou?
Why sir a car- -pen- -ter
Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
What dost thou with thy best ap- -par- -el on?
You sir what trade are you?
Tru- -ly sir in re- -spect of a fine work- -man I am
but as you would say a cob- -bler
But what trade art thou? An- -swer me di- -rect- -ly
A trade sir that I hope I may use with a
con- -science which is in- -deed sir a mender of bad soles
What trade thou knave? Thou naughty knave what
Nay I be- -seech you sir be not out with me
if you be out sir I can mend you
What mean'st thou by that? Mend me thou saucy
Why sir cob- -ble you
Thou art a cob- -bler art thou?
Tru- -ly Sir all that I live by is with the
med- -dle with no trades- -man- -'s mat- -ters nor wom- -en's mat- -ters but
awl I am in- -deed sir a sur- -geon to old shoes when they are
great dan- -ger I re- -cov- -er them As prop- -er men as ev- -er trod up- -on
neat's leather have gone up- -on my hand- -i- -work
But where- -fore art not in thy shop to- -day?
Why dost thou lead these men about the street- -s?
Tru- -ly sir to wear out their shoes to get
in- -to more work But in- -deed sir we make hol- -i- -day to see
and to re- -joice in his tri- -umph
Where- -fore re- -joice? What con- -quest brings he home?
What trib- -u- -taries fol- -low him to Rome
To grace in cap- -tive bonds his char- -i- -ot wheel- -s?
You blocks you stones you worse than sense- -less things!
O you hard hearts you cru- -el men of Rome
Knew you not Pom- -pey? Many a time and oft
Have you climb'd up to walls and bat- -tle- -ments
To tow- -ers and win- -dows yea to chim- -ney tops
Your in- -fants in your arms and there have sat
The live- -long day with pa- -tient ex- -pec- -ta- -tion
To see great Pom- -pey pass the streets of Rome
And when you saw his char- -i- -ot but ap- -pear
Have you not made an uni- -ver- -sal shout
That Tiber trem- -bled un- -der- -neath her banks
To hear the repli- -ca- -tion of your sounds
Made in her con- -cave shores?
And do you now put on your best at- -tire?
And do you now cull out a hol- -i- -day?
And do you now strew flow- -ers in his way
That comes in tri- -umph over Pom- -pey's blood?
Be gone!
Run to your hous- -es fall up- -on your knees
Pray to the gods to in- -ter- -mit the plague
That needs must light on this in- -grat- -i- -tude
Go go good coun- -try- -men and for this fault
As- -sem- -ble all the poor men of your sort
Draw them to Tiber banks and weep your tears
In- -to the chan- -nel till the low- -est stream
Do kiss the most ex- -alt- -ed shores of all
Exe- -unt all Com- -mon- -ers
See whether their basest met- -al be not moved
They van- -ish tongue- -tied in their guilti- -ness
Go you down that way to- -wards the Capi- -tol
This way will I Dis- -robe the im- -ages
If you do find them deck- -'d with cer- -e- -monies
May we do so?
You know it is the feast of Lu- -per- -cal
It is no mat- -ter let no im- -ages
Be hung with Cae- -sar's tro- -phies I'll about
And drive away the vul- -gar from the streets
So do you too where you per- -ceive them thick
These grow- -ing feath- -ers pluck- -'d from Cae- -sar's wing
Will make him fly an or- -di- -nary pitch
Who else would soar above the view of men
And keep us all in servile fear- -ful- -ness Exe- -unt
Calpur- -ni- -a!
Peace ho! Cae- -sar speaks
Mu- -sic ceas- -es
Calpur- -ni- -a!
Here my lord
Stand you di- -rect- -ly in An- -to- -nio's way
When he doth run his course An- -to- -nio!
Cae- -sar my lord?
For- -get not in your speed An- -to- -nio
To touch Calpur- -nia for our el- -ders say
The bar- -ren touched in this holy chase
Shake off their ster- -ile curse
I shall re- -mem- -ber
When Cae- -sar says "Do this," it is per- -for- -m'd
Set on and leave no cer- -e- -mo- -ny out Flour- -ish
Cae- -sar!
Ha! Who call- -s?
Bid ev- -ery noise be still Peace yet again!
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
I hear a tongue shriller than all the mu- -sic
Cry "Cae- -sar." Speak Cae- -sar is turn'd to hear
Be- -ware the ides of March
What man is that?
A sooth- -say- -er you be- -ware the ides of March
Set him be- -fore me let me see his face
Fel- -low come from the throng look up- -on Cae- -sar
What say'st thou to me now? Speak once again
Be- -ware the ides of March
He is a dream- -er let us leave him Pass
Sen- -net Exe- -unt all but Bru- -tus and Cas- -sius
Will you go see the or- -der of the course?
Not I
I pray you do
I am not game- -some I do lack some part
Of that quick spir- -it that is in Antony
Let me not hin- -der Cas- -sius your de- -sires
I'll leave you
Bru- -tus I do ob- -serve you now of late
I have not from your eyes that gen- -tle- -ness
And show of love as I was wont to have
You bear too stub- -born and too strange a hand
Over your friend that loves you
Cas- -sius
Be not de- -ceived if I have veil'd my look
I turn the trou- -ble of my coun- -te- -nance
Mere- -ly up- -on my- -self Vexed I am
Of late with pas- -sions of some dif- -fer- -ence
Con- -cep- -tions on- -ly prop- -er to my- -self
Which give some soil per- -haps to my be- -hav- -iors
But let not there- -fore my good friends be grieved
Among which num- -ber Cas- -sius be you one
Nor con- -strue any fur- -ther my ne- -glect
Than that poor Bru- -tus with him- -self at war
For- -gets the shows of love to oth- -er men
Then Bru- -tus I have much mis- -took your pas- -sion
By means where- -of this breast of mine hath buried
Thoughts of great val- -ue wor- -thy cog- -i- -ta- -tions
Tell me good Bru- -tus can you see your face?
No Cas- -sius for the eye sees not it- -self
But by re- -flec- -tion by some oth- -er things
'Tis just
And it is very much lament- -ed Bru- -tus
That you have no such mir- -rors as will turn
Your hid- -den wor- -thi- -ness in- -to your eye
That you might see your shad- -ow I have heard
Where many of the best re- -spect in Rome
Ex- -cept im- -mor- -tal Cae- -sar speak- -ing of Bru- -tus
And groan- -ing un- -der- -neath this age's yoke
Have wish'd that no- -ble Bru- -tus had his eyes
In- -to what dan- -gers would you lead me Cas- -sius
That you would have me seek in- -to my- -self
For that which is not in me?
There- -fore good Bru- -tus be pre- -pared to hear
And since you know you can- -not see your- -self
So well as by re- -flec- -tion I your glass
Will mod- -est- -ly dis- -cov- -er to your- -self
That of your- -self which you yet know not of
And be not jeal- -ous on me gen- -tle Bru- -tus
Were I a com- -mon laugh- -er or did use
To stale with or- -di- -nary oaths my love
To ev- -ery new pro- -test- -er if you know
That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
And af- -ter scan- -dal them or if you know
That I pro- -fess my- -self in ban- -quet- -ing
To all the rout then hold me dan- -ger- -ous
Flour- -ish and shout
What means this shout- -ing? I do fear the peo- -ple
Choose Cae- -sar for their king
Ay do you fear it?
Then must I think you would not have it so
I would not Cas- -sius yet I love him well
But where- -fore do you hold me here so long?
What is it that you would im- -part to me?
If it be aught to- -ward the gen- -er- -al good
Set hon- -or in one eye and death i' the oth- -er
And I will look on both in- -dif- -fer- -ent- -ly
For let the gods so speed me as I love
The name of hon- -or more than I fear death
I know that virtue to be in you Bru- -tus
As well as I do know your out- -ward fa- -vor
Well hon- -or is the sub- -ject of my sto- -ry
I can- -not tell what you and oth- -er men
Think of this life but for my sin- -gle self
I had as lief not be as live to be
In awe of such a thing as I my- -self
I was born free as Cae- -sar so were you
We both have fed as well and we can both
En- -dure the win- -ter's cold as well as he
For once up- -on a raw and gusty day
The trou- -bled Tiber chaf- -ing with her shores
Cae- -sar said to me "Darest thou Cas- -sius now
Leap in with me in- -to this an- -gry flood
And swim to yon- -der point?" Up- -on the word
Ac- -cou- -tred as I was I plunged in
And bade him fol- -low So in- -deed he did
The tor- -rent roar'd and we did buf- -fet it
With lusty sinews throw- -ing it aside
And stem- -ming it with hearts of con- -tro- -ver- -sy
But ere we could ar- -rive the point pro- -posed
Cae- -sar cried "Help me Cas- -sius or I sink!
I as Ae- -neas our great an- -ces- -tor
Did from the flames of Troy up- -on his shoul- -der
The old An- -chis- -es bear so from the waves of Tiber
Did I the tired Cae- -sar And this man
Is now be- -come a god and Cas- -sius is
A wretch- -ed crea- -ture and must bend his body
If Cae- -sar care- -less- -ly but nod on him
He had a fever when he was in Spain
And when the fit was on him I did mark
How he did shake 'Tis true this god did shake
His cow- -ard lips did from their col- -or fly
And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
Did lose his lus- -ter I did hear him groan
Ay and that tongue of his that bade the Ro- -mans
Mark him and write his speech- -es in their books
Alas it cried "Give me some drink Ti- -tinius,"
As a sick girl Ye god- -s! It doth amaze me
A man of such a fee- -ble tem- -per should
So get the start of the ma- -jes- -tic world
And bear the palm alone Shout Flour- -ish
An- -oth- -er gen- -er- -al shout!
I do be- -lieve that these ap- -plaus- -es are
For some new hon- -ors that are heap'd on Cae- -sar
Why man he doth be- -stride the nar- -row world
Like a Colos- -sus and we pet- -ty men
Walk un- -der his huge legs and peep about
To find our- -selves dis- -hon- -or- -able graves
Men at some time are mas- -ters of their fates
The fault dear Bru- -tus is not in our stars
But in our- -selves that we are un- -der- -lings
Bru- -tus and Cae- -sar what should be in that "Cae- -sar"?
Why should that name be sound- -ed more than yours?
Write them to- -geth- -er yours is as fair a name
Sound them it doth be- -come the mouth as well
Weigh them it is as heavy con- -jure with 'em
"Bru- -tus" will start a spir- -it as soon as "Cae- -sar."
Now in the names of all the gods at once
Up- -on what meat doth this our Cae- -sar feed
That he is grown so great? Age thou art shamed!
Rome thou hast lost the breed of no- -ble blood- -s!
When went there by an age since the great flood
But it was famed with more than with one man?
When could they say till now that talk'd of Rome
That her wide walls en- -com- -pass'd but one man?
Now is it Rome in- -deed and room enough
When there is in it but one on- -ly man
O you and I have heard our fa- -thers say
There was a Bru- -tus once that would have brook'd
The eter- -nal dev- -il to keep his state in Rome
As eas- -i- -ly as a king
That you do love me I am noth- -ing jeal- -ous
What you would work me to I have some aim
How I have thought of this and of these times
I shall re- -count here- -after for this present
I would not so with love I might en- -treat you
Be any fur- -ther moved What you have said
I will con- -sid- -er what you have to say
I will with pa- -tience hear and find a time
Both meet to hear and an- -swer such high things
Till then my no- -ble friend chew up- -on this
Bru- -tus had rather be a vil- -lager
Than to re- -pute him- -self a son of Rome
Un- -der these hard con- -di- -tions as this time
Is like to lay up- -on us
I am glad that my weak words
Have struck but thus much show of fire from Bru- -tus
Re- -en- -ter Cae- -sar and his Train
The games are done and Cae- -sar is re- -turn- -ing
As they pass by pluck Cas- -ca by the sleeve
And he will af- -ter his sour fash- -ion tell you
What hath pro- -ceed- -ed wor- -thy note to- -day
I will do so But look you Cas- -sius
The an- -gry spot doth glow on Cae- -sar's brow
And all the rest look like a chid- -den train
Calpur- -ni- -a's cheek is pale and Ci- -cero
Looks with such fer- -ret and such fiery eyes
As we have seen him in the Capi- -tol
Be- -ing cross'd in con- -fer- -ence by some sen- -a- -tors
Cas- -ca will tell us what the mat- -ter is
An- -to- -nio!
Cae- -sar?
Let me have men about me that are fat
Sleek- -- -head- -ed men and such as sleep o' nights
Yond Cas- -sius has a lean and hun- -gry look
He thinks too much such men are dan- -ger- -ous
Fear him not Cae- -sar he's not dan- -ger- -ous
He is a no- -ble Ro- -man and well giv- -en
Would he were fat- -ter! But I fear him not
Yet if my name were li- -able to fear
I do not know the man I should avoid
So soon as that spare Cas- -sius He reads much
He is a great ob- -serv- -er and he looks
Quite through the deeds of men He loves no plays
As thou dost Antony he hears no mu- -sic
Sel- -dom he smiles and smiles in such a sort
As if he mock- -'d him- -self and scorn'd his spir- -it
That could be moved to smile at any- -thing
Such men as he be nev- -er at heart's ease
Whiles they be- -hold a greater than them- -selves
And there- -fore are they very dan- -ger- -ous
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
Than what I fear for al- -ways I am Cae- -sar
Come on my right hand for this ear is deaf
And tell me tru- -ly what thou think'st of him
Sen- -net Exe- -unt Cae- -sar and all his Train but Cas- -ca
You pul- -l'd me by the cloak would you speak with me?
Ay Cas- -ca tell us what hath chanced to- -day
That Cae- -sar looks so sad
Why you were with him were you not?
I should not then ask Cas- -ca what had chanced
Why there was a crown of- -fered him and be- -ing of- -fered
he put it by with the back of his hand thus and then the
peo- -ple fell ashout- -ing
What was the sec- -ond noise for?
Why for that too
They shout- -ed thrice What was the last cry for?
Why for that too
Was the crown of- -fered him thrice?
Ay mar- -ry wast and he put it by thrice ev- -ery time
than oth- -er and at ev- -ery putting by mine hon- -est neigh- -bors
shout- -ed
Who of- -fered him the crown?
Why Antony
Tell us the man- -ner of it gen- -tle Cas- -ca
I can as well be hang'd as tell the man- -ner of it It was
mere fool- -ery I did not mark it I saw Mark Antony of- -fer him
crown (yet 't- -was not a crown nei- -ther 't- -was one of these
coro- -net- -s) and as I told you he put it by once But for all
that to my think- -ing he would fain have had it Then he
it to him again then he put it by again But to my
was very loath to lay his fin- -gers off it And then he of- -fered
the third time he put it the third time by and still as he
re- -fused it the rab- -ble- -ment hoot- -ed and clapped their chopped
and threw up their sweaty night- -caps and ut- -tered such a deal
stink- -ing breath be- -cause Cae- -sar re- -fused the crown that it had
al- -most choked Cae- -sar for he swound- -ed and fell down at it
for mine own part I durst not laugh for fear of open- -ing my
and re- -ceiv- -ing the bad air
But soft I pray you what did Cae- -sars wound?
He fell down in the mar- -ket- -place and foamed at mouth and
speech- -less
'Tis very like He hath the fall- -ing sick- -ness
No Cae- -sar hath it not but you and I
And hon- -est Cas- -ca we have the fall- -ing sick- -ness
I know not what you mean by that but I am sure Cae- -sar
down If the tagrag peo- -ple did not clap him and hiss him
ac- -cord- -ing as he pleased and dis- -pleased them as they use to
the play- -ers in the the- -atre I am no true man
What said he when he came un- -to him- -self?
Mar- -ry be- -fore he fell down when he per- -ceived the com- -mon
herd was glad he re- -fused the crown he plucked me ope his
and of- -fered them his throat to cut An had been a man of any
oc- -cu- -pa- -tion if I would not have tak- -en him at a word I would
might go to hell among the rogues And so he fell When he
to him- -self again he said if he had done or said any- -thing
he de- -sired their wor- -ships to think it was his in- -fir- -mi- -ty
four wench- -es where I stood cried "Alas good soul!" and
him with all their hearts But there's no heed to be tak- -en of
them if Cae- -sar had stabbed their moth- -ers they would have
no less
And af- -ter that he came thus sad away?
Ay
Did Ci- -cero say any- -thing?
Ay he spoke Greek
To what ef- -fec- -t?
Nay an I tell you that I'll ne'er look you i' the face
again but those that un- -der- -stood him smiled at one an- -oth- -er
shook their heads but for mine own part it was Greek to me
could tell you more news too Marul- -lus and Flav- -ius for
scarfs off Cae- -sar's im- -ages are put to si- -lence Fare you
There was more fool- -ery yet if could re- -mem- -ber it
Will you sup with me tonight Cas- -ca?
No I am promised forth
Will you dine with me to- -mor- -row?
Ay if I be alive and your mind hold and your din- -ner
the eat- -ing
Good I will ex- -pect you
Do so farewell both Ex- -it
What a blunt fel- -low is this grown to be!
He was quick met- -tle when he went to school
So is he now in ex- -e- -cu- -tion
Of any bold or no- -ble en- -ter- -prise
How- -ev- -er he puts on this tardy form
This rude- -ness is a sauce to his good wit
Which gives men stom- -ach to di- -gest his words
With bet- -ter ap- -petite
And so it is For this time I will leave you
To- -mor- -row if you please to speak with me
I will come home to you or if you will
Come home to me and I will wait for you
I will do so Till then think of the world
Ex- -it Bru- -tus
Well Bru- -tus thou art no- -ble yet I see
Thy hon- -or- -able met- -tle may be wrought
From that it is dis- -posed there- -fore it is meet
That no- -ble minds keep ev- -er with their likes
For who so firm that can- -not be se- -duced?
Cae- -sar doth bear me hard but he loves Bru- -tus
If I were Bru- -tus now and he were Cas- -sius
He should not hu- -mor me I will this night
In sev- -er- -al hands in at his win- -dows throw
As if they came from sev- -er- -al cit- -i- -zens
Writ- -ings all tend- -ing to the great opin- -ion
That Rome holds of his name where- -in ob- -scure- -ly
Cae- -sar's am- -bi- -tion shall be glanced at
And af- -ter this let Cae- -sar seat him sure
For we will shake him or worse days en- -dure Ex- -it
Good even Cas- -ca Brought you Cae- -sar home?
Why are you breath- -less and why stare you so?
Are not you moved when all the sway of earth
Shakes like a thing un- -fir- -m? O Ci- -cero
I have seen tem- -pests when the scold- -ing winds
Have rived the knot- -ty oaks and I have seen
The am- -bi- -tious ocean swell and rage and foam
To be ex- -alt- -ed with the threat- -en- -ing clouds
But nev- -er till tonight nev- -er till now
Did I go through a tem- -pest drop- -ping fire
Ei- -ther there is a civ- -il strife in heav- -en
Or else the world too saucy with the gods
In- -cens- -es them to send de- -struc- -tion
Why saw you any- -thing more won- -der- -ful?
A com- -mon slave you know him well by sight
Held up his left hand which did flame and burn
Like twen- -ty torch- -es join'd and yet his hand
Not sen- -si- -ble of fire re- -main'd un- -scorch'd
Be- -sides I ha' not since put up my sword
Against the Capi- -tol I met a li- -on
Who glaz'd up- -on me and went surly by
With- -out an- -noy- -ing me And there were drawn
Up- -on a heap a hun- -dred ghast- -ly wom- -en
Trans- -formed with their fear who swore they saw
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets
And yes- -ter- -day the bird of night did sit
Even at noon- -day up- -on the mar- -ket- -place
Howl- -ing and shriek- -ing When these prodi- -gies
Do so con- -joint- -ly meet let not men say
"These are their rea- -sons they are nat- -u- -ral"
For I be- -lieve they are por- -ten- -tous things
Un- -to the cli- -mate that they point up- -on
In- -deed it is a strange- -dis- -posed time
But men may con- -strue things af- -ter their fash- -ion
Clean from the pur- -pose of the things them- -selves
Comes Cae- -sar to the Capi- -tol to- -mor- -row?
He doth for he did bid An- -to- -nio
Send word to you he would be there to- -mor- -row
Good then Cas- -ca This dis- -turbed sky
Is not to walk in
Farewell Ci- -cero Ex- -it Ci- -cero
En- -ter Cas- -sius
Who's there?
A Ro- -man
Cas- -ca by your voice
Your ear is good Cas- -sius what night is this!
A very pleas- -ing night to hon- -est men
Who ev- -er knew the heav- -ens men- -ace so?
Those that have known the earth so full of faults
For my part I have walk'd about the streets
Sub- -mit- -ting me un- -to the per- -ilous night
And thus un- -braced Cas- -ca as you see
Have bared my bo- -som to the thun- -der- -stone
And when the cross blue light- -ning seem'd to open
The breast of heav- -en I did present my- -self
Even in the aim and very flash of it
But where- -fore did you so much tempt the heav- -en- -s?
It is the part of men to fear and trem- -ble
When the most mighty gods by to- -kens send
Such dread- -ful her- -alds to as- -ton- -ish us
You are dull Cas- -ca and those sparks of life
That should be in a Ro- -man you do want
Or else you use not You look pale and gaze
And put on fear and cast your- -self in won- -der
To see the strange im- -pa- -tience of the heav- -ens
But if you would con- -sid- -er the true cause
Why all these fires why all these glid- -ing ghosts
Why birds and beasts from qual- -i- -ty and kind
Why old men fools and chil- -dren cal- -cu- -late
Why all these things change from their or- -di- -nance
Their na- -tures and pre- -formed fac- -ul- -ties
To mon- -strous qual- -i- -ty why you shall find
That heav- -en hath in- -fused them with these spir- -its
To make them in- -stru- -ments of fear and warn- -ing
Un- -to some mon- -strous state
Now could I Cas- -ca name to thee a man
Most like this dread- -ful night
That thun- -ders light- -ens opens graves and roars
As doth the li- -on in the Capi- -tol
A man no might- -i- -er than thy- -self or me
In per- -son- -al ac- -tion yet prodi- -gious grown
And fear- -ful as these strange erup- -tions are
'Tis Cae- -sar that you mean is it not Cas- -sius?
Let it be who it is for Ro- -mans now
Have thews and limbs like to their an- -ces- -tors
But woe the while! Our fa- -ther- -s' minds are dead
And we are gov- -ern'd with our moth- -er- -s' spir- -its
Our yoke and suf- -fer- -ance show us wom- -an- -ish
In- -deed they say the sen- -a- -tors to- -mor- -row
Mean to es- -tab- -lish Cae- -sar as a king
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land
In ev- -ery place save here in Italy
I know where I will wear this dag- -ger then
Cas- -sius from bondage will de- -liv- -er Cas- -sius
There- -in ye gods you make the weak most strong
There- -in ye gods you tyrants do de- -feat
Nor stony tow- -er nor walls of beat- -en brass
Nor air- -less dun- -geon nor strong links of iron
Can be re- -ten- -tive to the strength of spir- -it
But life be- -ing weary of these world- -ly bars
Nev- -er lacks pow- -er to dis- -miss it- -self
If I know this know all the world be- -sides
That part of tyran- -ny that I do bear
I can shake off at plea- -sure Thun- -der still
So can I
So ev- -ery bond- -man in his own hand bears
The pow- -er to can- -cel his cap- -tiv- -i- -ty
And why should Cae- -sar be a tyrant then?
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf
But that he sees the Ro- -mans are but sheep
He were no li- -on were not Ro- -mans hinds
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire
Be- -gin it with weak straws What trash is Rome
What rub- -bish and what of- -fal when it serves
For the base mat- -ter to il- -lu- -mi- -nate
So vile a thing as Cae- -sar? But O grief
Where hast thou led me? I per- -haps speak this
Be- -fore a will- -ing bond- -man then I know
My an- -swer must be made But I am ar- -m'd
And dan- -gers are to me in- -dif- -fer- -ent
You speak to Cas- -ca and to such a man
That is no fleer- -ing tel- -l- -- -tale Hold my hand
Be fac- -tious for re- -dress of all these griefs
And I will set this foot of mine as far
As who goes far- -thest
There's a bar- -gain made
Now know you Cas- -ca I have moved al- -ready
Some cer- -tain of the no- -blest- -- -mind- -ed Ro- -mans
To un- -der- -go with me an en- -ter- -prise
Of hon- -or- -able- -- -dan- -ger- -ous con- -se- -quence
And I do know by this they stay for me
In Pom- -pey's Porch For now this fear- -ful night
There is no stir or walk- -ing in the streets
And the com- -plex- -ion of the el- -e- -ment
In fa- -vor's like the work we have in hand
Most bloody fiery and most ter- -ri- -ble
En- -ter Cin- -na
Stand close awhile for here comes one in haste
'Tis Cin- -na I do know him by his gait
He is a friend Cin- -na where haste you so?
To find out you Who's that? Metel- -lus Cim- -ber?
No it is Cas- -ca one in- -cor- -po- -rate
To our at- -tempts Am I not stay'd for Cin- -na?
I am glad on't What a fear- -ful night is this!
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights
Am I not stay'd for? Tell me
Yes you are
O Cas- -sius if you could
But win the no- -ble Bru- -tus to our par- -ty
Be you con- -tent Good Cin- -na take this pa- -per
And look you lay it in the prae- -tor's chair
Where Bru- -tus may but find it and throw this
In at his win- -dow set this up with wax
Up- -on old Bru- -tus' stat- -ue All this done
Re- -pair to Pom- -pey's Porch where you shall find us
Is De- -cius Bru- -tus and Tre- -bo- -nius there?
All but Metel- -lus Cim- -ber and he's gone
To seek you at your house Well I will hie
And so be- -stow these pa- -pers as you bade me
That done re- -pair to Pom- -pey's The- -atre
Ex- -it Cin- -na
Come Cas- -ca you and I will yet ere day
See Bru- -tus at his house Three parts of him
Is ours al- -ready and the man en- -tire
Up- -on the next en- -counter yields him ours
O he sits high in all the peo- -ple's hearts
And that which would ap- -pear of- -fense in us
His coun- -te- -nance like rich- -est alche- -my
Will change to virtue and to wor- -thi- -ness
Him and his worth and our great need of him
You have right well con- -ceit- -ed Let us go
For it is af- -ter mid- -night and ere day
We will awake him and be sure of him Exe- -unt
What Lu- -cius ho!
I can- -not by the progress of the stars
Give guess how near to day Lu- -cius I say!
I would it were my fault to sleep so sound- -ly
When Lu- -cius when? Awake I say! What Lu- -cius!
En- -ter Lu- -cius
Cal- -l'd you my lord?
Get me a ta- -per in my study Lu- -cius
When it is light- -ed come and call me here
I will my lord Ex- -it
It must be by his death and for my part
I know no per- -son- -al cause to spurn at him
But for the gen- -er- -al He would be crown'd
How that might change his na- -ture there's the ques- -tion
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder
And that craves wary walk- -ing Crown him that
And then I grant we put a sting in him
That at his will he may do dan- -ger with
The abuse of great- -ness is when it dis- -joins
Re- -morse from pow- -er and to speak truth of Cae- -sar
I have not known when his af- -fec- -tions sway'd
More than his rea- -son But 'tis a com- -mon proof
That low- -li- -ness is young am- -bi- -tion's lad- -der
Where- -to the climber- -up- -ward turns his face
But when he once at- -tains the up- -most round
He then un- -to the lad- -der turns his back
Looks in the clouds scorn- -ing the base de- -grees
By which he did as- -cend So Cae- -sar may
Then lest he may pre- -vent And since the quar- -rel
Will bear no col- -or for the thing he is
Fash- -ion it thus that what he is aug- -ment- -ed
Would run to these and these ex- -trem- -i- -ties
And there- -fore think him as a ser- -pen- -t's egg
Which hatch'd would as his kind grow mis- -chievous
And kill him in the shell
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius
The ta- -per bur- -neth in your clos- -et sir
Search- -ing the win- -dow for a flint I found
This pa- -per thus seal'd up and I am sure
It did not lie there when I went to bed
Gives him the let- -ter
Get you to bed again it is not day
Is not to- -mor- -row boy the ides of March?
I know not sir
Look in the cal- -en- -dar and bring me word
I will sir Ex- -it
The ex- -ha- -la- -tions whizzing in the air
Give so much light that I may read by them
Opens the let- -ter and reads
"Bru- -tus thou sleep- -'st awake and see thy- -self!
Shall Rome etc Speak strike re- -dress!"
"Bru- -tus thou sleep- -'st awake!"
Such in- -sti- -ga- -tions have been of- -ten drop- -p'd
Where I have took them up
"Shall Rome etc." Thus must I piece it out
Shall Rome stand un- -der one man's awe? What Rome?
My an- -ces- -tors did from the streets of Rome
The Tar- -quin drive when he was cal- -l'd a king
"S- -peak strike re- -dress!" Am I en- -treat- -ed
To speak and strike? O Rome I make thee prom- -ise
If the re- -dress will fol- -low thou re- -ceivest
Thy full pe- -ti- -tion at the hand of Bru- -tus!
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius
Sir March is wast- -ed fif- -teen days
Knock- -ing with- -in
'Tis good Go to the gate some- -body knocks
Ex- -it Lu- -cius
Since Cas- -sius first did whet me against Cae- -sar
I have not slept
Be- -tween the act- -ing of a dread- -ful thing
And the first mo- -tion all the in- -ter- -im is
Like a phan- -tas- -ma or a hideous dream
The ge- -nius and the mor- -tal in- -stru- -ments
Are then in coun- -cil and the state of man
Like to a lit- -tle king- -dom suf- -fers then
The na- -ture of an in- -sur- -rec- -tion
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius
Sir 'tis your broth- -er Cas- -sius at the door
Who doth de- -sire to see you
Is he alone?
No sir there are more with him
Do you know them?
No sir their hats are pluck- -'d about their ears
And half their faces buried in their cloaks
That by no means I may dis- -cov- -er them
By any mark of fa- -vor
Let 'em en- -ter Ex- -it Lu- -cius
They are the fac- -tion O Con- -spir- -a- -cy
Shamest thou to show thy dan- -ger- -ous brow by night
When evils are most free? O then by day
Where wilt thou find a cav- -ern dark enough
To mask thy mon- -strous vis- -age? Seek none Con- -spir- -a- -cy
Hide it in smiles and af- -fa- -bil- -i- -ty
For if thou path thy na- -tive sem- -blance on
Not Ere- -bus it- -self were dim enough
To hide thee from pre- -ven- -tion
En- -ter the con- -spir- -a- -tors Cas- -sius Cas- -ca De- -cius Cin- -na
Metel- -lus Cim- -ber and Tre- -bo- -nius
I think we are too bold up- -on your rest
Good mor- -row Bru- -tus do we trou- -ble you?
I have been up this hour awake all night
Know I these men that come along with you?
Yes ev- -ery man of them and no man here
But hon- -ors you and ev- -ery one doth wish
You had but that opin- -ion of your- -self
Which ev- -ery no- -ble Ro- -man bears of you
This is Tre- -bo- -nius
He is wel- -come hith- -er
This De- -cius Bru- -tus
He is wel- -come too
They are all wel- -come
What watch- -ful cares do in- -ter- -pose them- -selves
Be- -twixt your eyes and night?
Shall I en- -treat a word? They whis- -per
Here lies the east Doth not the day break here?
No
O par- -don sir it doth and yon- -grey lines
That fret the clouds are mes- -sen- -gers of day
You shall con- -fess that you are both de- -ceived
Here as I point my sword the sun aris- -es
Which is a great way grow- -ing on the south
Weigh- -ing the youth- -ful sea- -son of the year
Some two months hence up high- -er to- -ward the north
He first presents his fire and the high east
Stands as the Capi- -tol di- -rect- -ly here
Give me your hands all over one by one
And let us swear our res- -o- -lu- -tion
No not an oath If not the face of men
The suf- -fer- -ance of our souls the time's abuse
If these be mo- -tives weak break off be- -times
And ev- -ery man hence to his idle bed
So let high- -- -sight- -ed tyran- -ny range on
Till each man drop by lot- -tery But if these
As I am sure they do bear fire enough
To kin- -dle cow- -ards and to steel with val- -or
The melt- -ing spir- -its of wom- -en then coun- -try- -men
What need we any spur but our own cause
To prick us to re- -dress? What oth- -er bond
Than se- -cret Ro- -mans that have spoke the word
And will not pal- -ter? And what oth- -er oath
Than hon- -esty to hon- -esty en- -gaged
That this shall be or we will fall for it?
Swear priests and cow- -ards and men cautelous
Old fee- -ble car- -rions and such suf- -fer- -ing souls
That wel- -come wrongs un- -to bad caus- -es swear
Such crea- -tures as men doubt but do not stain
The even virtue of our en- -ter- -prise
Nor the in- -sup- -pres- -sive met- -tle of our spir- -its
To think that or our cause or our per- -for- -mance
Did need an oath when ev- -ery drop of blood
That ev- -ery Ro- -man bears and nobly bears
Is guilty of a sev- -er- -al bas- -tardy
If he do break the small- -est par- -ti- -cle
Of any prom- -ise that hath pass'd from him
But what of Ci- -cero? Shall we sound him?
I think he will stand very strong with us
Let us not leave him out
No by no means
O let us have him for his sil- -ver hairs
Will pur- -chase us a good opin- -ion
And buy men's voic- -es to com- -mend our deeds
It shall be said his judge- -ment ruled our hands
Our youths and wild- -ness shall no whit ap- -pear
But all be buried in his grav- -i- -ty
O name him not let us not break with him
For he will nev- -er fol- -low any- -thing
That oth- -er men be- -gin
Then leave him out
In- -deed he is not fit
Shall no man else be touch'd but on- -ly Cae- -sar?
De- -cius well urged I think it is not meet
Mark Antony so well beloved of Cae- -sar
Should out- -live Cae- -sar We shall find of him
A shrewd con- -triv- -er and you know his means
If he im- -prove them may well stretch so far
As to an- -noy us all which to pre- -vent
Let Antony and Cae- -sar fall to- -geth- -er
Our course will seem too bloody Caius Cas- -sius
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs
Like wrath in death and en- -vy af- -ter- -wards
For Antony is but a limb of Cae- -sar
Let us be sac- -ri- -fi- -cers but not butch- -ers Caius
We all stand up against the spir- -it of Cae- -sar
And in the spir- -it of men there is no blood
O that we then could come by Cae- -sar's spir- -it
And not dis- -mem- -ber Cae- -sar! But alas
Cae- -sar must bleed for it! And gen- -tle friends
Let's kill him bold- -ly but not wrath- -ful- -ly
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods
Not hew him as a car- -cass fit for hounds
And let our hearts as sub- -tle mas- -ters do
Stir up their ser- -vants to an act of rage
And af- -ter seem to chide 'em This shall make
Our pur- -pose nec- -es- -sary and not en- -vi- -ous
Which so ap- -pear- -ing to the com- -mon eyes
We shall be cal- -l'd purg- -ers not mur- -der- -ers
And for Mark Antony think not of him
For he can do no more than Cae- -sar's arm
When Cae- -sar's head is off
Yet I fear him
For in the in- -grat- -ed love he bears to Cae- -sar
Alas good Cas- -sius do not think of him
If he love Cae- -sar all that he can do
Is to him- -self take thought and die for Cae- -sar
And that were much he should for he is giv- -en
To sports to wild- -ness and much com- -pa- -ny
There is no fear in him- -let him not die
For he will live and laugh at this here- -after
Clock strikes
Peace count the clock
The clock hath strick- -en three
'Tis time to part
But it is doubt- -ful yet
Whether Cae- -sar will come forth to- -day or no
For he is su- -per- -sti- -tious grown of late
Quite from the main opin- -ion he held once
Of fan- -ta- -sy of dreams and cer- -e- -monies
It may be these ap- -par- -ent prodi- -gies
The un- -ac- -cus- -tom'd ter- -ror of this night
And the per- -sua- -sion of his au- -gur- -ers
May hold him from the Capi- -tol to- -day
Nev- -er fear that If he be so re- -solved
I can o'er- -sway him for he loves to hear
That uni- -corns may be be- -tray'd with trees
And bears with glass- -es ele- -phants with holes
Li- -ons with toils and men with flat- -ter- -ers
But when I tell him he hates flat- -ter- -ers
He says he does be- -ing then most flat- -tered
Let me work
For I can give his hu- -mor the true bent
And I will bring him to the Capi- -tol
Nay we will all of us be there to fetch him
By the eighth hour Is that the ut- -ter most?
Be that the ut- -ter- -most and fail not then
Caius Lig- -ar- -ius doth bear Cae- -sar hard
Who rat- -ed him for speak- -ing well of Pom- -pey
I won- -der none of you have thought of him
Now good Metel- -lus go along by him
He loves me well and I have giv- -en him rea- -sons
Send him but hith- -er and I'll fash- -ion him
The morn- -ing comes up- -on 's We'll leave you Bru- -tus
And friends dis- -perse your- -selves but all re- -mem- -ber
What you have said and show your- -selves true Ro- -mans
Good gen- -tle- -men look fresh and mer- -ri- -ly
Let not our looks put on our pur- -pos- -es
But bear it as our Ro- -man ac- -tors do
With un- -tired spir- -its and for- -mal con- -stan- -cy
And so good mor- -row to you ev- -ery one
Exe- -unt all but Bru- -tus
Boy! Lu- -cius! Fast asleep? It is no mat- -ter
En- -joy the hon- -ey- -heavy dew of slum- -ber
Thou hast no fig- -ures nor no fan- -tasies
Which busy care draws in the brains of men
There- -fore thou sleep- -'st so sound
En- -ter Por- -tia
Bru- -tus my lord!
Por- -tia what mean you? Where- -fore rise you now?
It is not for your health thus to com- -mit
Your weak con- -di- -tion to the raw cold morn- -ing
Nor for yours nei- -ther have un- -gent- -ly Bru- -tus
Stole from my bed and yestern- -ight at sup- -per
You sud- -den- -ly arose and walk'd about
Mus- -ing and sigh- -ing with your arms across
And when I ask'd you what the mat- -ter was
You stared up- -on me with un- -gen- -tle looks
I urged you fur- -ther then you scratch'd your head
And too im- -pa- -tient- -ly stam- -p'd with your foot
Yet I in- -sist- -ed yet you an- -swer'd not
But with an an- -gry wait- -er of your hand
Gave sign for me to leave you So I did
Fear- -ing to strength- -en that im- -pa- -tience
Which seem'd too much enkin- -dled and with- -al
Hop- -ing it was but an ef- -fect of hu- -mor
Which some- -time hath his hour with ev- -ery man
It will not let you eat nor talk nor sleep
And could it work so much up- -on your shape
As it hath much pre- -vail'd on your con- -di- -tion
I should not know you Bru- -tus Dear my lord
Make me ac- -quaint- -ed with your cause of grief
I am not well in health and that is all
Bru- -tus is wise and were he not in health
He would em- -brace the means to come by it
Why so I do Good Por- -tia go to bed
Is Bru- -tus sick and is it phys- -i- -cal
To walk un- -braced and suck up the hu- -mors
Of the dank morn- -ing? What is Bru- -tus sick
And will he steal out of his whole- -some bed
To dare the vile con- -ta- -gion of the night
And tempt the rheumy and un- -purged air
To add un- -to his sick- -ness? No my Bru- -tus
You have some sick of- -fense with- -in your mind
Which by the right and virtue of my place
I ought to know of and up- -on my knees
I charm you by my once com- -mend- -ed beau- -ty
By all your vows of love and that great vow
Which did in- -cor- -po- -rate and make us one
That you un- -fold to me your- -self your half
Why you are heavy and what men tonight
Have had re- -sort to you for here have been
Some six or sev- -en who did hide their faces
Even from dark- -ness
Kneel not gen- -tle Por- -tia
I should not need if you were gen- -tle Bru- -tus
With- -in the bond of mar- -riage tell me Bru- -tus
Is it ex- -cept- -ed I should know no se- -crets
That ap- -per- -tain to you? Am I your- -self
But as it were in sort or lim- -i- -ta- -tion
To keep with you at meals com- -fort your bed
And talk to you some- -times? Dwell I but in the sub- -urbs
Of your good plea- -sure? If it be no more
Por- -tia is Bru- -tus' har- -lot not his wife
You are my true and hon- -or- -able wife
As dear to me as are the rud- -dy drops
That vis- -it my sad heart
If this were true then should I know this se- -cret
I grant I am a wom- -an but with- -al
A wom- -an that Lord Bru- -tus took to wife
I grant I am a wom- -an but with- -al
A wom- -an well re- -put- -ed Cato's daugh- -ter
Think you I am no stronger than my sex
Be- -ing so fa- -ther'd and so hus- -band- -ed?
Tell me your coun- -sels I will not dis- -close 'em
I have made strong proof of my con- -stan- -cy
Giv- -ing my- -self a vol- -un- -tary wound
Here in the thigh Can I bear that with pa- -tience
And not my hus- -band's se- -cret- -s?
O ye gods
Ren- -der me wor- -thy of this no- -ble wife! Knock- -ing with- -in
Hark hark one knocks Por- -tia go in awhile
And by and by thy bo- -som shall par- -take
The se- -crets of my heart
All my en- -gage- -ments I will con- -strue to thee
All the char- -ac- -tery of my sad brows
Leave me with haste [Ex- -it Por- -ti- -a.] Lu- -cius who's that
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius with Lig- -ar- -ius
Here is a sick man that would speak with you
Caius Lig- -ar- -ius that Metel- -lus spake of
Boy stand aside Caius Lig- -ar- -ius how?
Vouch- -safe good mor- -row from a fee- -ble tongue
O what a time have you chose out brave Caius
To wear a ker- -chief! Would you were not sick!
I am not sick if Bru- -tus have in hand
Any ex- -ploit wor- -thy the name of hon- -or
Such an ex- -ploit have I in hand Lig- -ar- -ius
Had you a health- -ful ear to hear of it
By all the gods that Ro- -mans bow be- -fore
I here dis- -card my sick- -ness! Soul of Rome!
Brave son de- -rived from hon- -or- -able loin- -s!
Thou like an ex- -or- -cist hast con- -jured up
My mor- -ti- -fied spir- -it Now bid me run
And I will strive with things im- -pos- -si- -ble
Yea get the bet- -ter of them What's to do?
A piece of work that will make sick men whole
But are not some whole that we must make sick?
That must we al- -so What it is my Caius
I shall un- -fold to thee as we are go- -ing
To whom it must be done
Set on your foot
And with a heart new- -- -fired I fol- -low you
To do I know not what but it suf- -ficeth
That Bru- -tus leads me on
Fol- -low me then Exe- -unt
Nor heav- -en nor earth have been at peace tonight
Thrice hath Calpur- -nia in her sleep cried out
"Help ho! They mur- -ther Cae- -sar!" Who's with- -in?
En- -ter a Ser- -vant
My lord?
Go bid the priests do present sac- -ri- -fice
And bring me their opin- -ions of suc- -cess
I will my lord Ex- -it
En- -ter Calpur- -nia
What mean you Cae- -sar? Think you to walk forth?
You shall not stir out of your house to- -day
Cae- -sar shall forth the things that threat- -en'd me
Ne'er look'd but on my back when they shall see
The face of Cae- -sar they are van- -ished
Cae- -sar I I stood on cer- -e- -monies
Yet now they fright me There is one with- -in
Be- -sides the things that we have heard and seen
Re- -counts most hor- -rid sights seen by the watch
A li- -on- -ess hath whelped in the streets
And graves have yawn'd and yield- -ed up their dead
Fierce fiery war- -riors fight up- -on the clouds
In ranks and squadrons and right form of war
Which driz- -zled blood up- -on the Capi- -tol
The noise of bat- -tle hur- -tled in the air
Hors- -es did neigh and dy- -ing men did groan
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets
O Cae- -sar! These things are be- -yond all use
And I do fear them
What can be avoid- -ed
Whose end is pur- -posed by the mighty god- -s?
Yet Cae- -sar shall go forth for these pre- -dic- -tions
Are to the world in gen- -er- -al as to Cae- -sar
When beg- -gars die there are no comets seen
The heav- -ens them- -selves blaze forth the death of princes
Cow- -ards die many times be- -fore their deaths
The valiant nev- -er taste of death but once
Of all the won- -ders that I yet have heard
It seems to me most strange that men should fear
See- -ing that death a nec- -es- -sary end
Will come when it will come
Re- -en- -ter Ser- -vant
What say the au- -gur- -ers?
They would not have you to stir forth to- -day
Pluck- -ing the en- -trails of an of- -fer- -ing forth
They could not find a heart with- -in the beast
The gods do this in shame of cow- -ardice
Cae- -sar should be a beast with- -out a heart
If he should stay at home to- -day for fear
No Cae- -sar shall not Dan- -ger knows full well
That Cae- -sar is more dan- -ger- -ous than he
We are two li- -ons lit- -ter'd in one day
And I the el- -der and more ter- -ri- -ble
And Cae- -sar shall go forth
Alas my lord
Your wis- -dom is con- -sumed in con- -fi- -dence
Do not go forth to- -day Call it my fear
That keeps you in the house and not your own
We'll send Mark Antony to the Sen- -ate House
And he shall say you are not well to- -day
Let me up- -on my knee pre- -vail in this
Mark Antony shall say I am not well
And for thy hu- -mor I will stay at home
En- -ter De- -cius
Here's De- -cius Bru- -tus he shall tell them so
Cae- -sar all hail! Good mor- -row wor- -thy Cae- -sar!
I come to fetch you to the Sen- -ate House
And you are come in very hap- -py time
To bear my greet- -ing to the sen- -a- -tors
And tell them that I will not come to- -day
Can- -not is false and that I dare not falser
I will not come to- -day Tell them so De- -cius
Say he is sick
Shall Cae- -sar send a lie?
Have I in con- -quest stretch'd mine arm so far
To be afeard to tell grey- -beards the truth?
De- -cius go tell them Cae- -sar will not come
Most mighty Cae- -sar let me know some cause
Lest I be laugh- -'d at when I tell them so
The cause is in my will I will not come
That is enough to sat- -is- -fy the Sen- -ate
But for your pri- -vate sat- -is- -fac- -tion
Be- -cause I love you I will let you know
Calpur- -nia here my wife stays me at home
She dreamt tonight she saw my stat- -ue
Which like a foun- -tain with an hun- -dred spouts
Did run pure blood and many lusty Ro- -mans
Came smil- -ing and did bathe their hands in it
And these does she ap- -ply for warn- -ings and por- -tents
And evils im- -mi- -nent and on her knee
Hath beg- -g'd that I will stay at home to- -day
This dream is all amiss in- -ter- -pret- -ed
It was a vi- -sion fair and for- -tu- -nate
Your stat- -ue spout- -ing blood in many pipes
In which so many smil- -ing Ro- -mans bathed
Sig- -ni- -fies that from you great Rome shall suck
Re- -viv- -ing blood and that great men shall press
For tinc- -tures stains relics and cog- -nizance
This by Calpur- -ni- -a's dream is sig- -ni- -fied
And this way have you well ex- -pound- -ed it
I have when you have heard what I can say
And know it now the Sen- -ate have con- -clud- -ed
To give this day a crown to mighty Cae- -sar
If you shall send them word you will not come
Their minds may change Be- -sides it were a mock
Apt to be ren- -der'd for some- -one to say
"Break up the Sen- -ate till an- -oth- -er time
When Cae- -sar's wife shall meet with bet- -ter dream- -s."
If Cae- -sar hide him- -self shall they not whis- -per
"Lo Cae- -sar is afraid"?
Par- -don me Cae- -sar for my dear dear love
To your pro- -ceed- -ing bids me tell you this
And rea- -son to my love is li- -able
How fool- -ish do your fears seem now Calpur- -ni- -a!
I am ashamed I did yield to them
Give me my robe for I will go
En- -ter Pub- -lius Bru- -tus Lig- -ar- -ius Metel- -lus Cas- -ca
Tre- -bo- -nius and Cin- -na
And look where Pub- -lius is come to fetch me
Good mor- -row,- -Cae- -sar
Wel- -come Pub- -lius
What Bru- -tus are you stir- -r'd so ear- -ly too?
Good mor- -row Cas- -ca Caius Lig- -ar- -ius
Cae- -sar was ne'er so much your en- -e- -my
As that same ague which hath made you lean
What is't o'- -clock?
Cae- -sar 'tis struck- -en eight
I thank you for your pains and cour- -tesy
En- -ter Antony
See Antony that rev- -els long o' nights
Is not- -with- -stand- -ing up Good mor- -row Antony
So to most no- -ble Cae- -sar
Bid them pre- -pare with- -in
I am to blame to be thus wait- -ed for
Now Cin- -na now Metel- -lus what Tre- -bo- -nius
I have an hour's talk in store for you
Re- -mem- -ber that you call on me to- -day
Be near me that I may re- -mem- -ber you
Cae- -sar I will [A- -side.] And so near will I be
That your best friends shall wish I had been fur- -ther
Good friends go in and taste some wine with me
And we like friends will straight- -way go to- -geth- -er
[A- -side.] That ev- -ery like is not the same O Cae- -sar
The heart of Bru- -tus yearns to think up- -on! Exe- -unt
"Cae- -sar be- -ware of Bru- -tus take heed of Cas- -sius
not near Cas- -ca have an eye to Cin- -na trust not Tre- -bo- -nius
well Metel- -lus Cim- -ber De- -cius Bru- -tus loves thee not thou hast
wronged Caius Lig- -ar- -ius There is but one mind in all these
and it is bent against Cae- -sar If thou beest not im- -mor- -tal
about you Se- -cu- -ri- -ty gives way to con- -spir- -a- -cy The mighty gods
de- -fend thee!
Thy lover Artemi- -dorus."
Here will I stand till Cae- -sar pass along
And as a suit- -or will I give him this
My heart laments that virtue can- -not live
Out of the teeth of em- -u- -la- -tion
If thou read this O Cae- -sar thou mayest live
If not the Fates with traitors do con- -trive Ex- -it
I prithee boy run to the Sen- -ate House
Stay not to an- -swer me but get thee gone
Why dost thou stay?
To know my er- -rand madam
I would have had thee there and here again
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there
O con- -stan- -cy be strong up- -on my side!
Set a huge moun- -tain 'tween my heart and tongue!
I have a man's mind but a wom- -an's might
How hard it is for wom- -en to keep coun- -sel!
Art thou here yet?
Madam what should I do?
Run to the Capi- -tol and noth- -ing else?
And so re- -turn to you and noth- -ing else?
Yes bring me word boy if thy lord look well
For he went sick- -ly forth and take good note
What Cae- -sar doth what suit- -ors press to him
Hark boy what noise is that?
I hear none madam
Prithee lis- -ten well
I heard a bustling ru- -mor like a fray
And the wind brings it from the Capi- -tol
Sooth madam I hear noth- -ing
En- -ter the Sooth- -say- -er
Come hith- -er fel- -low
Which way hast thou been?
At mine own house good la- -dy
What is't o'- -clock?
About the ninth hour la- -dy
Is Cae- -sar yet gone to the Capi- -tol?
Madam not yet I go to take my stand
To see him pass on to the Capi- -tol
Thou hast some suit to Cae- -sar hast thou not?
That I have la- -dy If it will please Cae- -sar
To be so good to Cae- -sar as to hear me
I shall be- -seech him to be- -friend him- -self
Why know'st thou any har- -m's in- -tend- -ed to- -wards him?
None that I know will be much that I fear may
Good mor- -row to you Here the street is nar- -row
The throng that fol- -lows Cae- -sar at the heels
Of sen- -a- -tors of prae- -tors com- -mon suit- -ors
Will crowd a fee- -ble man al- -most to death
I'll get me to a place more void and there
Speak to great Cae- -sar as he comes along Ex- -it
I must go in Ay me how weak a thing
The heart of wom- -an is! O Bru- -tus
The heav- -ens speed thee in thine en- -ter- -prise!
Sure the boy heard me Bru- -tus hath a suit
That Cae- -sar will not grant O I grow faint
Run Lu- -cius and com- -mend me to my lord
Say I am mer- -ry Come to me again
And bring me word what he doth say to thee
Exe- -unt sev- -er- -al- -ly
The ides of March are come
Ay Cae- -sar but not gone
A Hail Cae- -sar! Read this sched- -ule
Tre- -bo- -nius doth de- -sire you to o'er read
At your best leisure this his hum- -ble suit
O Cae- -sar read mine first for mine's a suit
That touch- -es Cae- -sar near- -er Read it great Cae- -sar
What touch- -es us our- -self shall be last served
De- -lay not Cae- -sar read it in- -stant- -ly
What is the fel- -low mad?
Sir- -rah give place
What urge you your pe- -ti- -tions in the street?
Come to the Capi- -tol
Cae- -sar goes up to the Sen- -ate House the rest fol- -low
I wish your en- -ter- -prise to- -day may thrive
What en- -ter- -prise Popil- -ius?
Fare you well
Ad- -vances to Cae- -sar
What said Popil- -ius Lena?
He wish'd to- -day our en- -ter- -prise might thrive
I fear our pur- -pose is dis- -cov- -ered
Look how he makes to Cae- -sar Mark him
Cas- -ca
Be sud- -den for we fear pre- -ven- -tion
Bru- -tus what shall be done? If this be known
Cas- -sius or Cae- -sar nev- -er shall turn back
For I will slay my- -self
Cas- -sius be con- -stant
Popil- -ius Lena speaks not of our pur- -pos- -es
For look he smiles and Cae- -sar doth not change
Tre- -bo- -nius knows his time for look you Bru- -tus
He draws Mark Antony out of the way
Exe- -unt Antony and Tre- -bo- -nius
Where is Metel- -lus Cim- -ber? Let him
And present- -ly pre- -fer his suit to Cae- -sar
He is ad- -dress'd press near and sec- -ond him
Cas- -ca you are the first that rears your hand
Are we all ready? What is now amiss
That Cae- -sar and his Sen- -ate must re- -dress?
Most high most mighty and most puis- -sant Cae- -sar
Metel- -lus Cim- -ber throws be- -fore thy seat
An hum- -ble heart Kneels
I must pre- -vent thee Cim- -ber
These couch- -ings and these low- -ly cour- -te- -sies
Might fire the blood of or- -di- -nary men
And turn pre- -or- -di- -nance and first de- -cree
In- -to the law of chil- -dren Be not fond
To think that Cae- -sar bears such rebel blood
That will be thaw'd from the true qual- -i- -ty
With that which melteth fools I mean sweet words
Low- -crooked court'sies and base spaniel- -- -fawn- -ing
Thy broth- -er by de- -cree is ban- -ished
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way
Know Cae- -sar doth not wrong nor with- -out cause
Will he be sat- -is- -fied
Is there no voice more wor- -thy than my own
To sound more sweet- -ly in great Cae- -sar's ear
For the re- -peal- -ing of my ban- -ish'd broth- -er?
I kiss thy hand but not in flat- -tery Cae- -sar
De- -sir- -ing thee that Pub- -lius Cim- -ber may
Have an im- -me- -di- -ate free- -dom of re- -peal
What Bru- -tus?
Par- -don Cae- -sar! Cae- -sar par- -don!
As low as to thy foot doth Cas- -sius fall
To beg en- -fran- -chise- -ment for Pub- -lius Cim- -ber
I could be well moved if I were as you
If I could pray to move prayers would move me
But I am con- -stant as the north- -ern star
Of whose true- -- -fix'd and rest- -ing qual- -i- -ty
There is no fel- -low in the fir- -ma- -ment
The skies are paint- -ed with un- -num- -ber'd sparks
They are all fire and ev- -ery one doth shine
But there's but one in all doth hold his place
So in the world 'tis fur- -nish'd well with men
And men are flesh and blood and ap- -pre- -hen- -sive
Yet in the num- -ber I do know but one
That unas- -sail- -able holds on his rank
Un- -shaked of mo- -tion and that I am he
Let me a lit- -tle show it even in this
That I was con- -stant Cim- -ber should be ban- -ish'd
And con- -stant do re- -main to keep him so
O Cae- -sar
Hence! Wilt thou lift up Olym- -pus?
Great Cae- -sar
Doth not Bru- -tus boot- -less kneel?
Speak hands for me!
Cas- -ca first then the oth- -er Con- -spir- -a- -tors
and Mar- -cus Bru- -tus stab Cae- -sar
Et tu Brute? Then fall Cae- -sar! Dies
Lib- -er- -ty! Free- -dom! Tyran- -ny is dead!
Run hence pro- -claim cry it about the streets
Some to the com- -mon pul- -pits and cry out
"Lib- -er- -ty free- -dom and en- -fran- -chise- -men- -t!"
Peo- -ple and sen- -a- -tors be not af- -fright- -ed
Fly not stand still am- -bi- -tion's debt is paid
Go to the pul- -pit Bru- -tus
And Cas- -sius too
Where's Pub- -lius?
Here quite con- -found- -ed with this mutiny
Stand fast to- -geth- -er lest some friend of Cae- -sar's
Should chance
Talk not of stand- -ing Pub- -lius good cheer
There is no harm in- -tend- -ed to your per- -son
Nor to no Ro- -man else So tell them Pub- -lius
And leave us Pub- -lius lest that the peo- -ple
Rush- -ing on us should do your age some mis- -chief
Do so and let no man abide this deed
But we the do- -ers
Re- -en- -ter Tre- -bo- -nius
Where is Antony?
Fled to his house amazed
Men wives and chil- -dren stare cry out and run
As it were dooms- -day
Fates we will know your plea- -sures
That we shall die we know 'tis but the time
And draw- -ing days out that men stand up- -on
Why he that cuts off twen- -ty years of life
Cuts off so many years of fear- -ing death
Grant that and then is death a ben- -e- -fit
So are we Cae- -sar's friends that have abridged
His time of fear- -ing death Stoop Ro- -mans stoop
And let us bathe our hands in Cae- -sar's blood
Up to the el- -bows and be- -smear our swords
Then walk we forth even to the mar- -ket- -place
And wav- -ing our red weapons o'er our heads
Let's all cry "Peace free- -dom and lib- -er- -ty!"
Stoop then and wash How many ages hence
Shall this our lofty scene be act- -ed over
In states un- -born and ac- -cents yet un- -known!
How many times shall Cae- -sar bleed in sport
That now on Pom- -pey's ba- -sis lies along
No wor- -thi- -er than the dust!
So oft as that shall be
So of- -ten shall the knot of us be cal- -l'd
The men that gave their coun- -try lib- -er- -ty
What shall we forth?
Ay ev- -ery man away
Bru- -tus shall lead and we will grace his heels
With the most bold- -est and best hearts of Rome
En- -ter a Ser- -vant
Soft who comes here? A friend of Antony's
Thus Bru- -tus did my mas- -ter bid me kneel
Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down
And be- -ing pros- -trate thus he bade me say
Bru- -tus is no- -ble wise valiant and hon- -est
Cae- -sar was mighty bold roy- -al and lov- -ing
Say I love Bru- -tus and I hon- -or him
Say I fear'd Cae- -sar hon- -or'd him and loved him
If Bru- -tus will vouch- -safe that Antony
May safe- -ly come to him and be re- -solved
How Cae- -sar hath de- -served to lie in death
Mark Antony shall not love Cae- -sar dead
So well as Bru- -tus liv- -ing but will fol- -low
The for- -tunes and af- -fairs of no- -ble Bru- -tus
Thor- -ough the haz- -ards of this un- -trod state
With all true faith So says my mas- -ter Antony
Thy mas- -ter is a wise and valiant Ro- -man
I nev- -er thought him worse
Tell him so please him come un- -to this place
He shall be sat- -is- -fied and by my hon- -or
De- -part un- -touch'd
I'll fetch him present- -ly Ex- -it
I know that we shall have him well to friend
I wish we may but yet have I a mind
That fears him much and my mis- -giv- -ing still
Falls shrewd- -ly to the pur- -pose
Re- -en- -ter Antony
But here comes Antony Wel- -come Mark Antony
O mighty Cae- -sar! Dost thou lie so low?
Are all thy con- -quests glo- -ries tri- -umphs spoils
Shrunk to this lit- -tle mea- -sure? Fare thee well
I know not gen- -tle- -men what you in- -tend
Who else must be let blood who else is rank
If I my- -self there is no hour so fit
As Cae- -sar's death's hour nor no in- -stru- -ment
Of half that worth as those your swords made rich
With the most no- -ble blood of all this world
I do be- -seech ye if you bear me hard
Now whilst your pur- -pled hands do reek and smoke
Ful- -fill your plea- -sure Live a thou- -sand years
I shall not find my- -self so apt to die
No place will please me so no means of death
As here by Cae- -sar and by you cut off
The choice and mas- -ter spir- -its of this age
O Antony beg not your death of us!
Though now we must ap- -pear bloody and cru- -el
As by our hands and this our present act
You see we do yet see you but our hands
And this the bleed- -ing busi- -ness they have done
Our hearts you see not they are piti- -ful
And pity to the gen- -er- -al wrong of Rome
As fire drives out fire so pity pity
Hath done this deed on Cae- -sar For your part
To you our swords have lead- -en points Mark Antony
Our arms in strength of mal- -ice and our hearts
Of broth- -er- -s' tem- -per do re- -ceive you in
With all kind love good thoughts and rev- -er- -ence
Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
In the dis- -pos- -ing of new dig- -ni- -ties
On- -ly be pa- -tient till we have ap- -peased
The mul- -ti- -tude be- -side them- -selves with fear
And then we will de- -liv- -er you the cause
Why I that did love Cae- -sar when I struck him
Have thus pro- -ceed- -ed
I doubt not of your wis- -dom
Let each man ren- -der me his bloody hand
First Mar- -cus Bru- -tus will I shake with you
Next Caius Cas- -sius do I take your hand
Now De- -cius Bru- -tus yours now yours Metel- -lus
Yours Cin- -na and my valiant Cas- -ca yours
Though last not least in love yours good Tre- -bo- -nius
Gen- -tle- -men all alas what shall I say?
My cred- -it now stands on such slip- -pery ground
That one of two bad ways you must con- -ceit me
Ei- -ther a cow- -ard or a flat- -ter- -er
That I did love thee Cae- -sar O 'tis true!
If then thy spir- -it look up- -on us now
Shall it not grieve thee dear- -er than thy death
To see thy Antony mak- -ing his peace
Shak- -ing the bloody fin- -gers of thy foes
Most no- -ble! In the pres- -ence of thy corse?
Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds
Weep- -ing as fast as they stream forth thy blood
It would be- -come me bet- -ter than to close
In terms of friend- -ship with thine en- -e- -mies
Par- -don me Julius! Here wast thou bay'd brave hart
Here didst thou fall and here thy hunters stand
Sign'd in thy spoil and crim- -son'd in thy Lethe
O world thou wast the for- -est to this hart
And this in- -deed O world the heart of thee
How like a deer struck- -en by many princes
Dost thou here lie!
Mark Antony
Par- -don me Caius Cas- -sius
The en- -e- -mies of Cae- -sar shall say this
Then in a friend it is cold mod- -esty
I blame you not for prais- -ing Cae- -sar so
But what com- -pact mean you to have with us?
Will you be prick- -'d in num- -ber of our friends
Or shall we on and not de- -pend on you?
There- -fore I took your hands but was in- -deed
Sway'd from the point by look- -ing down on Cae- -sar
Friends am I with you all and love you all
Up- -on this hope that you shall give me rea- -sons
Why and where- -in Cae- -sar was dan- -ger- -ous
Or else were this a sav- -age spec- -ta- -cle
Our rea- -sons are so full of good re- -gard
That were you Antony the son of Cae- -sar
You should be sat- -is- -fied
That's all I seek
And am more- -over suit- -or that I may
Pro- -duce his body to the mar- -ket- -place
And in the pul- -pit as be- -comes a friend
Speak in the or- -der of his fu- -ner- -al
You shall Mark Antony
Bru- -tus a word with you
[A- -side to Bru- -tus.] You know not what you do Do not con- -sent
That Antony speak in his fu- -ner- -al
Know you how much the peo- -ple may be moved
By that which he will ut- -ter?
By your par- -don
I will my- -self in- -to the pul- -pit first
And show the rea- -son of our Cae- -sar's death
What Antony shall speak I will protest
He speaks by leave and by per- -mis- -sion
And that we are con- -tent- -ed Cae- -sar shall
Have all true rites and law- -ful cer- -e- -monies
It shall ad- -van- -tage more than do us wrong
I know not what may fall I like it not
Mark Antony here take you Cae- -sar's body
You shall not in your fu- -ner- -al speech blame us
But speak all good you can de- -vise of Cae- -sar
And say you do't by our per- -mis- -sion
Else shall you not have any hand at all
About his fu- -ner- -al And you shall speak
In the same pul- -pit where- -to I am go- -ing
Af- -ter my speech is end- -ed
Be it so
I do de- -sire no more
Pre- -pare the body then and fol- -low us
Exe- -unt all but Antony
O par- -don me thou bleed- -ing piece of earth
That I am meek and gen- -tle with these butch- -er- -s!
Thou art the ru- -ins of the no- -blest man
That ev- -er lived in the tide of times
Woe to the hand that shed this cost- -ly blood!
Over thy wounds now do I proph- -esy
(Which like dumb mouths do ope their ru- -by lips
To beg the voice and ut- -ter- -ance of my tongue)
A curse shall light up- -on the limbs of men
Do- -mes- -tic fury and fierce civ- -il strife
Shall cum- -ber all the parts of Italy
Blood and de- -struc- -tion shall be so in use
And dread- -ful ob- -jects so fa- -mil- -iar
That moth- -ers shall but smile when they be- -hold
Their in- -fants quar- -ter'd with the hands of war
All pity choked with cus- -tom of fell deeds
And Cae- -sar's spir- -it rang- -ing for re- -venge
With Ate by his side come hot from hell
Shall in these con- -fines with a monar- -ch's voice
Cry "Hav- -oc!" and let slip the dogs of war
That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
With car- -rion men groan- -ing for buri- -al
En- -ter a Ser- -vant
You serve Oc- -tavius Cae- -sar do you not?
I do Mark Antony
Cae- -sar did write for him to come to Rome
He did re- -ceive his let- -ters and is com- -ing
And bid me say to you by word of mouth
O Cae- -sar! Sees the body
Thy heart is big get thee apart and weep
Pas- -sion I see is catch- -ing for mine eyes
See- -ing those beads of sor- -row stand in thine
Be- -gan to wa- -ter Is thy mas- -ter com- -ing?
He lies tonight with- -in sev- -en leagues of Rome
Post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced
Here is a mourn- -ing Rome a dan- -ger- -ous Rome
No Rome of safe- -ty for Oc- -tavius yet
Hie hence and tell him so Yet stay awhile
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
In- -to the mar- -ket- -place There shall I try
In my ora- -tion how the peo- -ple take
The cru- -el is- -sue of these bloody men
Ac- -cord- -ing to the which thou shalt dis- -course
To young Oc- -tavius of the state of things
Lend me your hand Exe- -unt with Cae- -sar's body
We will be sat- -is- -fied! Let us be sat- -is- -fied!
Then fol- -low me and give me au- -di- -ence friends
Cas- -sius go you in- -to the oth- -er street
And part the num- -bers
Those that will hear me speak let 'em stay here
Those that will fol- -low Cas- -sius go with him
And pub- -lic rea- -sons shall be ren- -dered
Of Cae- -sar's death
I will hear Bru- -tus speak
I will hear Cas- -sius and com- -pare their rea- -sons
When sev- -er- -al- -ly we hear them ren- -dered
Ex- -it Cas- -sius with some Cit- -i- -zens
Bru- -tus goes in- -to the pul- -pit
The no- -ble Bru- -tus is as- -cend- -ed Si- -lence!
Be pa- -tient till the last
Ro- -mans coun- -try- -men and lover- -s! Hear me for my cause and be
silent that you may hear Be- -lieve me for mine hon- -or and
re- -spect to mine hon- -or that you may be- -lieve Cen- -sure me in
wis- -dom and awake your sens- -es that you may the bet- -ter judge
there be any in this as- -sem- -bly any dear friend of Cae- -sar's
him I say that Bru- -tus' love to Cae- -sar was no less than his
then that friend de- -mand why Bru- -tus rose against Cae- -sar this
my an- -swer Not that I loved Cae- -sar less but that I loved
more Had you rather Cae- -sar were liv- -ing and die all slaves
that Cae- -sar were dead to live all freemen? As Cae- -sar loved
weep for him as he was for- -tu- -nate I re- -joice at it as he was
valiant I hon- -or him but as he was am- -bi- -tious I slew him
is tears for his love joy for his for- -tune hon- -or for his
and death for his am- -bi- -tion Who is here so base that would be
bond- -man? If any speak for him have I of- -fend- -ed Who is here
rude that would not be a Ro- -man? If any speak for him have I
of- -fend- -ed Who is here so vile that will not love his coun- -try?
any speak for him have I of- -fend- -ed I pause for a re- -ply
None Bru- -tus none
Then none have I of- -fend- -ed I have done no more to
than you shall do to Bru- -tus The ques- -tion of his death is
en- -rolled in the Capi- -tol his glo- -ry not ex- -ten- -u- -at- -ed where- -in he
wor- -thy nor his of- -fens- -es en- -forced for which he suf- -fered
En- -ter Antony and oth- -ers with Cae- -sar's body
Here comes his body mourned by Mark Antony who though he
no hand in his death shall re- -ceive the ben- -e- -fit of his dy- -ing
place in the com- -mon- -wealth as which of you shall not? With
de- -part that as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome I
have the same dag- -ger for my- -self when it shall please my
to need my death
Live Bru- -tus live live!
Bring him with tri- -umph home un- -to his house
Give him a stat- -ue with his an- -ces- -tors
Let him be Cae- -sar
Cae- -sar's bet- -ter parts
Shall be crown'd in Bru- -tus
We'll bring him to his house with shouts and
clam- -ors
My coun- -try- -men
Peace! Si- -lence! Bru- -tus speaks
Peace ho!
Good coun- -try- -men let me de- -part alone
And for my sake stay here with Antony
Do grace to Cae- -sar's corse and grace his speech
Tend- -ing to Cae- -sar's glo- -ries which Mark Antony
By our per- -mis- -sion is al- -low'd to make
I do en- -treat you not a man de- -part
Save I alone till Antony have spoke Ex- -it
Stay ho and let us hear Mark Antony
Let him go up in- -to the pub- -lic chair
We'll hear him No- -ble Antony go up
For Bru- -tus' sake I am be- -hold- -ing to you
Goes in- -to the pul- -pit
What does he say of Bru- -tus?
He says for Bru- -tus' sake
He finds him- -self be- -hold- -ing to us all
'Twere best he speak no harm of Bru- -tus here
This Cae- -sar was a tyrant
Nay that's cer- -tain
We are blest that Rome is rid of him
Peace! Let us hear what Antony can say
You gen- -tle Ro- -mans
Peace ho! Let us hear him
Friends Ro- -mans coun- -try- -men lend me your ears!
I come to bury Cae- -sar not to praise him
The evil that men do lives af- -ter them
The good is oft in- -terred with their bones
So let it be with Cae- -sar The no- -ble Bru- -tus
Hath told you Cae- -sar was am- -bi- -tious
If it were so it was a griev- -ous fault
And griev- -ous- -ly hath Cae- -sar an- -swer'd it
Here un- -der leave of Bru- -tus and the rest
For Bru- -tus is an hon- -or- -able man
So are they all all hon- -or- -able men
Come I to speak in Cae- -sar's fu- -ner- -al
He was my friend faith- -ful and just to me
But Bru- -tus says he was am- -bi- -tious
And Bru- -tus is an hon- -or- -able man
He hath brought many cap- -tives home to Rome
Whose ran- -soms did the gen- -er- -al cof- -fers fill
Did this in Cae- -sar seem am- -bi- -tious?
When that the poor have cried Cae- -sar hath wept
Am- -bi- -tion should be made of stern- -er stuff
Yet Bru- -tus says he was am- -bi- -tious
And Bru- -tus is an hon- -or- -able man
You all did see that on the Lu- -per- -cal
I thrice pre- -sent- -ed him a king- -ly crown
Which he did thrice refuse Was this am- -bi- -tion?
Yet Bru- -tus says he was am- -bi- -tious
And sure he is an hon- -or- -able man
I speak not to dis- -prove what Bru- -tus spoke
But here I am to speak what I do know
You all did love him once not with- -out cause
What cause with- -holds you then to mourn for him?
O judge- -ment thou art fled to brutish beasts
And men have lost their rea- -son Bear with me
My heart is in the cof- -fin there with Cae- -sar
And I must pause till it come back to me
Me- -thinks there is much rea- -son in his say- -ings
If thou con- -sid- -er right- -ly of the mat- -ter
Cae- -sar has had great wrong
Has he mas- -ter- -s?
I fear there will a worse come in his place
Mark'd ye his word- -s? He would not take the
There- -fore 'tis cer- -tain he was not am- -bi- -tious
If it be found so some will dear abide it
Poor soul his eyes are red as fire with
There's not a no- -bler man in Rome than Antony
Now mark him he be- -gins again to speak
But yes- -ter- -day the word of Cae- -sar might
Have stood against the world Now lies he there
And none so poor to do him rev- -er- -ence
O mas- -ter- -s! If I were dis- -posed to stir
Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage
I should do Bru- -tus wrong and Cas- -sius wrong
Who you all know are hon- -or- -able men
I will not do them wrong I rather choose
To wrong the dead to wrong my- -self and you
Than I will wrong such hon- -or- -able men
But here's a parch- -ment with the seal of Cae- -sar
I found it in his clos- -et 'tis his will
Let but the com- -mons hear this tes- -ta- -ment
Which par- -don me I do not mean to read
And they would go and kiss dead Cae- -sar's wounds
And dip their nap- -kins in his sa- -cred blood
Yea beg a hair of him for mem- -o- -ry
And dy- -ing men- -tion it with- -in their wills
Be- -queath- -ing it as a rich lega- -cy
Un- -to their is- -sue
We'll hear the will Read it Mark Antony
The will the will! We will hear Cae- -sar's will
Have pa- -tience gen- -tle friends I must not read it
It is not meet you know how Cae- -sar loved you
You are not wood you are not stones but men
And be- -ing men hear- -ing the will of Cae- -sar
It will in- -flame you it will make you mad
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs
For if you should O what would come of it!
Read the will we'll hear it Antony
You shall read us the will Cae- -sar's will
Will you be pa- -tien- -t? Will you stay awhile?
I have o'er- -shot my- -self to tell you of it
I fear I wrong the hon- -or- -able men
Whose dag- -gers have stab- -b'd Cae- -sar I do fear it
They were traitors Hon- -or- -able men!
The will! The tes- -ta- -men- -t!
They were vil- -lains mur- -ther- -ers The will!
Read the will!
You will com- -pel me then to read the will?
Then make a ring about the corse of Cae- -sar
And let me show you him that made the will
Shall I de- -scend? And will you give me leave?
Come down
De- -scend
He comes down from the pul- -pit
You shall have leave
A ring stand round
Stand from the hearse stand from the body
Room for Antony most no- -ble Antony
Nay press not so up- -on me stand far off
Stand back room bear back!
If you have tears pre- -pare to shed them now
You all do know this man- -tle I re- -mem- -ber
The first time ev- -er Cae- -sar put it on
'T- -was on a sum- -mer's evening in his tent
That day he over- -came the Nervii
Look in this place ran Cas- -sius' dag- -ger through
See what a rent the en- -vi- -ous Cas- -ca made
Through this the well- -- -beloved Bru- -tus stab- -b'd
And as he pluck- -'d his cursed steel away
Mark how the blood of Cae- -sar fol- -low'd it
As rush- -ing out of doors to be re- -solved
If Bru- -tus so un- -kind- -ly knock- -'d or no
For Bru- -tus as you know was Cae- -sar's an- -gel
Judge O you gods how dear- -ly Cae- -sar loved him!
This was the most un- -kind- -est cut of all
For when the no- -ble Cae- -sar saw him stab
In- -grat- -i- -tude more strong than traitors' arms
Quite van- -quish'd him Then burst his mighty heart
And in his man- -tle muf- -fling up his face
Even at the base of Pom- -pey's stat- -ue
Which all the while ran blood great Cae- -sar fell
O what a fall was there my coun- -try- -men!
Then I and you and all of us fell down
Whilst bloody trea- -son flour- -ish'd over us
O now you weep and I per- -ceive you feel
The dint of pity These are gra- -cious drops
Kind souls what weep you when you but be- -hold
Our Cae- -sar's ves- -ture wound- -ed? Look you here
Here is him- -self mar- -r'd as you see with traitors
O piteous spec- -ta- -cle!
O no- -ble Cae- -sar!
O woe- -ful day!
O traitors vil- -lain- -s!
O most bloody sight!
We will be re- -venged
Re- -venge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kil- -l!
Slay! Let not a traitor live!
Stay coun- -try- -men
Peace there! Hear the no- -ble Antony
We'll hear him we'll fol- -low him we'll die
him
Good friends sweet friends let me not stir you up
To such a sud- -den flood of mutiny
They that have done this deed are hon- -or- -able
What pri- -vate griefs they have alas I know not
That made them do it They are wise and hon- -or- -able
And will no doubt with rea- -sons an- -swer you
I come not friends to steal away your hearts
I am no or- -a- -tor as Bru- -tus is
But as you know me all a plain blunt man
That love my friend and that they know full well
That gave me pub- -lic leave to speak of him
For I have nei- -ther wit nor words nor worth
Ac- -tion nor ut- -ter- -ance nor the pow- -er of speech
To stir men's blood I on- -ly speak right on
I tell you that which you your- -selves do know
Show you sweet Cae- -sar's wounds poor dumb mouths
And bid them speak for me But were I Bru- -tus
And Bru- -tus Antony there were an Antony
Would ruf- -fle up your spir- -its and put a tongue
In ev- -ery wound of Cae- -sar that should move
The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny
We'll mutiny
We'll burn the house of Bru- -tus
Away then! Come seek the con- -spir- -a- -tors
Yet hear me coun- -try- -men yet hear me speak
Peace ho! Hear Antony most no- -ble Antony!
Why friends you go to do you know not what
Where- -in hath Cae- -sar thus de- -served your loves?
Alas you know not I must tell you then
You have for- -got the will I told you of
Most true the will! Let's stay and hear the will
Here is the will and un- -der Cae- -sar's seal
To ev- -ery Ro- -man cit- -i- -zen he gives
To ev- -ery sev- -er- -al man sev- -en- -ty- -- -five drach- -mas
Most no- -ble Cae- -sar! We'll re- -venge his death
O roy- -al Cae- -sar!
Hear me with pa- -tience
Peace ho!
More- -over he hath left you all his walks
His pri- -vate ar- -bors and new- -- -plant- -ed or- -chards
On this side Tiber he hath left them you
And to your heirs for- -ev- -er com- -mon plea- -sures
To walk abroad and recre- -ate your- -selves
Here was a Cae- -sar! When comes such an- -oth- -er?
Nev- -er nev- -er Come away away!
We'll burn his body in the holy place
And with the brands fire the traitors' hous- -es
Take up the body
Go fetch fire
Pluck down bench- -es
Pluck down forms win- -dows any- -thing
Exe- -unt Cit- -i- -zens with the body
Now let it work Mis- -chief thou art afoot
Take thou what course thou wilt
En- -ter a Ser- -vant
How now fel- -low?
Sir Oc- -tavius is al- -ready come to Rome
Where is he?
He and Lep- -idus are at Cae- -sar's house
And thith- -er will I straight to vis- -it him
He comes up- -on a wish For- -tune is mer- -ry
And in this mood will give us any- -thing
I heard him say Bru- -tus and Cas- -sius
Are rid like mad- -men through the gates of Rome
Be like they had some no- -tice of the peo- -ple
How I had moved them Bring me to Oc- -tavius Exe- -unt
I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Cae- -sar
And things un- -luck- -i- -ly charge my fan- -ta- -sy
I have no will to wan- -der forth of doors
Yet some- -thing leads me forth
En- -ter Cit- -i- -zens
What is your name?
Whith- -er are you go- -ing?
Where do you dwell?
Are you a mar- -ried man or a bach- -e- -lor?
An- -swer ev- -ery man di- -rect- -ly
Ay and briefly
Ay and wise- -ly
Ay and tru- -ly you were best
What is my name? Whith- -er am I go- -ing? Where do I dwell?
a mar- -ried man or a bach- -e- -lor? Then to an- -swer ev- -ery man
and briefly wise- -ly and tru- -ly wise- -ly I say I am a bach- -e- -lor
That's as much as to say they are fools that
You'll bear me a bang for that I fear Pro- -ceed di- -rect- -ly
Di- -rect- -ly I am go- -ing to Cae- -sar's fu- -ner- -al
As a friend or an en- -e- -my?
As a friend
That mat- -ter is an- -swered di- -rect- -ly
For your dwelling briefly
Briefly I dwell by the Capi- -tol
Your name sir tru- -ly
Tru- -ly my name is Cin- -na
Tear him to pieces he's a con- -spir- -a- -tor
I am Cin- -na the po- -et I am Cin- -na the po- -et
Tear him for his bad vers- -es tear him for his
vers- -es
I am not Cin- -na the con- -spir- -a- -tor
It is no mat- -ter his name's Cin- -na Pluck but
name out of his heart and turn him go- -ing
Tear him tear him! Come brands ho
Bru- -tus' to Cas- -sius' burn all Some to De- -cius' house and
to Cas- -ca's some to Lig- -ar- -ius' Away go! Exe- -unt
These many then shall die their names are prick- -'d
Your broth- -er too must die con- -sent you Lep- -idus?
I do con- -sent
Prick him down Antony
Up- -on con- -di- -tion Pub- -lius shall not live
Who is your sis- -ter's son Mark Antony
He shall not live look with a spot I damn him
But Lep- -idus go you to Cae- -sar's house
Fetch the will hith- -er and we shall de- -ter- -mine
How to cut off some charge in lega- -cies
What shall I find you here?
Or here or at the Capi- -tol Ex- -it Lep- -idus
This is a slight un- -mer- -i- -ta- -ble man
Meet to be sent on er- -rands Is it fit
The three- -- -- -fold world di- -vid- -ed he should stand
One of the three to share it?
So you thought him
And took his voice who should be prick- -'d to die
In our black sen- -tence and pro- -scrip- -tion
Oc- -tavius I have seen more days than you
And though we lay these hon- -ors on this man
To ease our- -selves of divers slan- -der- -ous loads
He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold
To groan and sweat un- -der the busi- -ness
Ei- -ther led or driv- -en as we point the way
And hav- -ing brought our trea- -sure where we will
Then take we down his load and turn him off
Like to the emp- -ty ass to shake his ears
And graze in com- -mons
You may do your will
But he's a tried and valiant sol- -dier
So is my horse Oc- -tavius and for that
I do ap- -point him store of proven- -der
It is a crea- -ture that I teach to fight
To wind to stop to run di- -rect- -ly on
His cor- -po- -ral mo- -tion gov- -ern'd by my spir- -it
And in some taste is Lep- -idus but so
He must be taught and train'd and bid go forth
A bar- -ren- -spir- -it- -ed fel- -low one that feeds
On ob- -jects arts and im- -i- -ta- -tions
Which out of use and staled by oth- -er men
Be- -gin his fash- -ion Do not talk of him
But as a prop- -er- -ty And now Oc- -tavius
Lis- -ten great things Bru- -tus and Cas- -sius
Are levy- -ing pow- -ers we must straight make head
There- -fore let our al- -liance be com- -bined
Our best friends made our means stretch'd
And let us present- -ly go sit in coun- -cil
How covert mat- -ters may be best dis- -closed
And open per- -ils surest an- -swered
Let us do so for we are at the stake
And bay'd about with many en- -e- -mies
And some that smile have in their hearts I fear
Mil- -lions of mis- -chiefs Exe- -unt
Stand ho!
Give the word ho and stand
What now Lu- -cil- -ius is Cas- -sius near?
He is at hand and Pin- -darus is come
To do you salu- -ta- -tion from his mas- -ter
He greets me well Your mas- -ter Pin- -darus
In his own change or by ill of- -fi- -cers
Hath giv- -en me some wor- -thy cause to wish
Things done un- -done but if he be at hand
I shall be sat- -is- -fied
I do not doubt
But that my no- -ble mas- -ter will ap- -pear
Such as he is full of re- -gard and hon- -or
He is not doubt- -ed A word Lu- -cil- -ius
How he re- -ceived you Let me be re- -solved
With cour- -tesy and with re- -spect enough
But not with such fa- -mil- -iar in- -stances
Nor with such free and friend- -ly con- -fer- -ence
As he hath used of old
Thou hast de- -scribed
A hot friend cool- -ing Ev- -er note Lu- -cil- -ius
When love be- -gins to sick- -en and de- -cay
It useth an en- -forced cer- -e- -mo- -ny
There are no tricks in plain and sim- -ple faith
But hol- -low men like hors- -es hot at hand
Make gal- -lant show and prom- -ise of their met- -tle
But when they should en- -dure the bloody spur
They fall their crests and like de- -ceit- -ful jades
Sink in the tri- -al Comes his army on?
They meant his night in Sard is to be quar- -ter'd
The greater part the horse in gen- -er- -al
Are come with Cas- -sius Low march with- -in
Hark he is ar- -rived
March gen- -tly on to meet him
En- -ter Cas- -sius and his Pow- -ers
Stand ho!
Stand ho! Speak the word along
Stand!
Stand!
Stand!
Most no- -ble broth- -er you have done me wrong
Judge me you god- -s! Wrong I mine en- -e- -mies?
And if not so how should I wrong a broth- -er?
Bru- -tus this sober form of yours hides wrongs
And when you do them
Cas- -sius be con- -tent
Speak your griefs soft- -ly I do know you well
Be- -fore the eyes of both our armies here
Which should per- -ceive noth- -ing but love from us
Let us not wran- -gle Bid them move away
Then in my tent Cas- -sius en- -large your griefs
And I will give you au- -di- -ence
Pin- -darus
Bid our com- -man- -ders lead their charges off
A lit- -tle from this ground
Lu- -cil- -ius do you the like and let no man
Come to our tent till we have done our con- -fer- -ence
Let Lu- -cius and Ti- -tinius guard our door Exe- -unt
That you have wrong'd me doth ap- -pear in this
You have con- -dem- -n'd and not- -ed Lu- -cius Pel- -la
For tak- -ing bribes here of the Sar- -dians
Where- -in my let- -ters pray- -ing on his side
Be- -cause I knew the man were slight- -ed off
You wrong'd your- -self to write in such a case
In such a time as this it is not meet
That ev- -ery nice of- -fense should bear his com- -ment
Let me tell you Cas- -sius you your- -self
Are much con- -dem- -n'd to have an itch- -ing palm
To sell and mart your of- -fices for gold
To un- -de- -servers
I an itch- -ing palm?
You know that you are Bru- -tus that speaks this
Or by the gods this speech were else your last
The name of Cas- -sius hon- -ors this cor- -rup- -tion
And chas- -tise- -ment doth there- -fore hide his head
Chas- -tise- -men- -t?
Re- -mem- -ber March the ides of March re- -mem- -ber
Did not great Julius bleed for jus- -tice' sake?
What vil- -lain touch'd his body that did stab
And not for jus- -tice? What shall one of us
That struck the fore- -most man of all this world
But for sup- -port- -ing rob- -bers shall we now
Con- -tam- -i- -nate our fin- -gers with base bribes
And sell the mighty space of our large hon- -ors
For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
I had rather be a dog and bay the moon
Than such a Ro- -man
Bru- -tus bait not me
I'll not en- -dure it You for- -get your- -self
To hedge me in I am a sol- -dier I
Old- -er in prac- -tice abler than your- -self
To make con- -di- -tions
Go to you are not Cas- -sius
I am
I say you are not
Urge me no more I shall for- -get my- -self
Have mind up- -on your health tempt me no far- -ther
Away slight man!
Is't pos- -si- -ble?
Hear me for I will speak
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
Shall I be fright- -ed when a mad- -man stares?
O gods ye god- -s! Must I en- -dure all this?
All this? Ay more Fret till your proud heart break
Go show your slaves how cho- -ler- -ic you are
And make your bond- -men trem- -ble Must I bouge?
Must I ob- -serve you? Must I stand and crouch
Un- -der your testy hu- -mor? By the gods
You shall di- -gest the ven- -om of your spleen
Though it do split you for from this day forth
I'll use you for my mirth yea for my laugh- -ter
When you are waspish
Is it come to this?
You say you are a bet- -ter sol- -dier
Let it ap- -pear so make your vaunt- -ing true
And it shall please me well For mine own part
I shall be glad to learn of no- -ble men
You wrong me ev- -ery way you wrong me Bru- -tus
I said an el- -der sol- -dier not a bet- -ter
Did I say "bet- -ter"?
If you did I care not
When Cae- -sar lived he durst not thus have moved me
Peace peace! You durst not so have tempt- -ed him
I durst not?
No
What durst not tempt him?
For your life you durst not
Do not pre- -sume too much up- -on my love
I may do that I shall be sor- -ry for
You have done that you should be sor- -ry for
There is no ter- -ror Cas- -sius in your threats
For I am ar- -m'd so strong in hon- -esty
That they pass by me as the idle wind
Which I re- -spect not I did send to you
For cer- -tain sums of gold which you de- -nied me
For I can raise no mon- -ey by vile means
By heav- -en I had rather coin my heart
And drop my blood for drach- -mas than to wring
From the hard hands of peas- -ants their vile trash
By any in- -di- -rec- -tion I did send
To you for gold to pay my le- -gions
Which you de- -nied me Was that done like Cas- -sius?
Should I have an- -swer'd Caius Cas- -sius so?
When Mar- -cus Bru- -tus grows so cov- -etous
To lock such ras- -cal coun- -ters from his friends
Be ready gods with all your thun- -der- -bolts
Dash him to pieces!
I de- -nied you not
You did
I did not He was but a fool
That brought my an- -swer back Bru- -tus hath rived my heart
A friend should bear his friend's in- -fir- -mi- -ties
But Bru- -tus makes mine greater than they are
I do not till you prac- -tise them on me
You love me not
I do not like your faults
A friend- -ly eye could nev- -er see such faults
A flat- -ter- -er's would not though they do ap- -pear
As huge as high Olym- -pus
Come Antony and young Oc- -tavius come
Re- -venge your- -selves alone on Cas- -sius
For Cas- -sius is aweary of the world
Hat- -ed by one he loves braved by his broth- -er
Check- -'d like a bond- -man all his faults ob- -served
Set in a note- -book learn'd and con- -n'd by rote
To cast in- -to my teeth O I could weep
My spir- -it from mine eye- -s! There is my dag- -ger
And here my naked breast with- -in a heart
Dear- -er than Plu- -to's mine rich- -er than gold
If that thou best a Ro- -man take it forth
I that de- -nied thee gold will give my heart
Strike as thou didst at Cae- -sar for I know
When thou didst hate him worst thou lovedst him bet- -ter
Than ev- -er thou lovedst Cas- -sius
Sheathe your dag- -ger
Be an- -gry when you will it shall have scope
Do what you will dis- -hon- -or shall be hu- -mor
O Cas- -sius you are yoked with a lamb
That car- -ries anger as the flint bears fire
Who much en- -forced shows a hasty spark
And straight is cold again
Hath Cas- -sius lived
To be but mirth and laugh- -ter to his Bru- -tus
When grief and blood il- -l- -tem- -per'd vex- -eth him?
When I spoke that I was il- -l- -tem- -per'd too
Do you con- -fess so much? Give me your hand
And my heart too
O Bru- -tus!
What's the mat- -ter?
Have not you love enough to bear with me
When that rash hu- -mor which my moth- -er gave me
Makes me for- -get- -ful?
Yes Cas- -sius and from hence- -forth
When you are overearnest with your Bru- -tus
He'll think your moth- -er chides and leave you so
[With- -in.] Let me go in to see the gen- -er- -als
There is some grudge be- -tween 'em 'tis not meet
They be alone
[With- -in.] You shall not come to them
[With- -in.] Noth- -ing but death shall stay me
En- -ter Po- -et fol- -lowed by Lu- -cil- -ius Ti- -tinius and Lu- -cius
How now what's the mat- -ter?
For shame you gen- -er- -al- -s! What do you mean?
Love and be friends as two such men should be
For I have seen more years I'm sure than ye
Ha ha! How vile- -ly doth this cyn- -ic rhyme!
Get you hence sir- -rah saucy fel- -low hence!
Bear with him Bru- -tus 'tis his fash- -ion
I'll know his hu- -mor when he knows his time
What should the wars do with these jig- -ging fool- -s?
Com- -pan- -ion hence!
Away away be gone! Ex- -it Po- -et
Lu- -cil- -ius and Ti- -tinius bid the com- -man- -ders
Pre- -pare to lodge their com- -pa- -nies tonight
And come your- -selves and bring Mes- -sala with you
Im- -me- -di- -ate- -ly to us Exe- -unt Lu- -cil- -ius and Ti- -tinius
Lu- -cius a bowl of wine! Ex- -it Lu- -cius
I did not think you could have been so an- -gry
O Cas- -sius I am sick of many griefs
Of your phi- -los- -o- -phy you make no use
If you give place to ac- -ci- -den- -tal evils
No man bears sor- -row bet- -ter Por- -tia is dead
Ha? Por- -ti- -a?
She is dead
How 's- -caped killing when I cross'd you so?
O in- -sup- -port- -able and touch- -ing loss!
Up- -on what sick- -ness?
Im- -pa- -tient of my ab- -sence
And grief that young Oc- -tavius with Mark Antony
Have made them- -selves so strong for with her death
That tid- -ings came with this she fell dis- -tract
And (her at- -ten- -dants ab- -sen- -t) swal- -low'd fire
And died so?
Even so
O ye im- -mor- -tal god- -s!
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius with wine and ta- -per
Speak no more of her Give me a bowl of wine
In this I bury all un- -kind- -ness Cas- -sius Drinks
My heart is thirsty for that no- -ble pledge
Fill Lu- -cius till the wine o'er- -swell the cup
I can- -not drink too much of Bru- -tus' love Drinks
Come in Ti- -tinius! Ex- -it Lu- -cius
Re- -en- -ter Ti- -tinius with Mes- -sala
Wel- -come good Mes- -sala
Now sit we close about this ta- -per here
And call in ques- -tion our ne- -ces- -si- -ties
Por- -tia art thou gone?
No more I pray you
Mes- -sala I have here re- -ceived let- -ters
That young Oc- -tavius and Mark Antony
Come down up- -on us with a mighty pow- -er
Bend- -ing their ex- -pe- -di- -tion to- -ward Philip- -pi
My- -self have let- -ters of the self- -same ten- -ure
With what ad- -di- -tion?
That by pro- -scrip- -tion and bills of out- -lawry
Oc- -tavius Antony and Lep- -idus
Have put to death an hun- -dred sen- -a- -tors
There in our let- -ters do not well agree
Mine speak of sev- -en- -ty sen- -a- -tors that died
By their pro- -scrip- -tions Ci- -cero be- -ing one
Ci- -cero one!
Ci- -cero is dead
And by that or- -der of pro- -scrip- -tion
Had you your let- -ters from your wife my lord?
No Mes- -sala
Nor noth- -ing in your let- -ters writ of her?
Noth- -ing Mes- -sala
That me- -thinks is strange
Why ask you? Hear you aught of her in yours?
No my lord
Now as you are a Ro- -man tell me true
Then like a Ro- -man bear the truth I tell
For cer- -tain she is dead and by strange man- -ner
Why farewell Por- -tia We must die Mes- -sala
With med- -i- -tat- -ing that she must die once
I have the pa- -tience to en- -dure it now
Even so great men great loss- -es should en- -dure
I have as much of this in art as you
But yet my na- -ture could not bear it so
Well to our work alive What do you think
Of march- -ing to Philip- -pi present- -ly?
I do not think it good
Your rea- -son?
This it is
'Tis bet- -ter that the en- -e- -my seek us
So shall he waste his means weary his sol- -diers
Do- -ing him- -self of- -fense whilst we ly- -ing still
Are full of rest de- -fense and nim- -ble- -ness
Good rea- -sons must of force give place to bet- -ter
The peo- -ple 'twixt Philip- -pi and this ground
Do stand but in a forced af- -fec- -tion
For they have grudged us con- -tri- -bu- -tion
The en- -e- -my march- -ing along by them
By them shall make a fuller num- -ber up
Come on re- -fresh'd new- -added and en- -cour- -aged
From which ad- -van- -tage shall we cut him off
If at Philip- -pi we do face him there
These peo- -ple at our back
Hear me good broth- -er
Un- -der your par- -don You must note be- -side
That we have tried the ut- -most of our friends
Our le- -gions are brim- -- -full our cause is ripe
The en- -e- -my in- -creaseth ev- -ery day
We at the height are ready to de- -cline
There is a tide in the af- -fairs of men
Which tak- -en at the flood leads on to for- -tune
Omit- -ted all the voy- -age of their life
Is bound in shal- -lows and in mis- -eries
On such a full sea are we now afloat
And we must take the cur- -rent when it serves
Or lose our ven- -tures
Then with your will go on
We'll along our- -selves and meet them at Philip- -pi
The deep of night is crept up- -on our talk
And na- -ture must obey ne- -ces- -si- -ty
Which we will nig- -gard with a lit- -tle rest
There is no more to say?
No more Good night
Ear- -ly to- -mor- -row will we rise and hence
Lu- -cius!
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius
My gown Ex- -it Lu- -cius
Farewell good Mes- -sala
Good night Ti- -tinius no- -ble no- -ble Cas- -sius
Good night and good re- -pose
O my dear broth- -er!
This was an ill be- -gin- -ning of the night
Nev- -er come such di- -vi- -sion 'tween our soul- -s!
Let it not Bru- -tus
Ev- -ery- -thing is well
Good night my lord
Good night good broth- -er
MES- -SALA Good night Lord Bru- -tus
Farewell ev- -ery- -one
Exe- -unt all but Bru- -tus
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius with the gown
Give me the gown Where is thy in- -stru- -men- -t?
Here in the tent
What thou speak'st drowsi- -ly?
Poor knave I blame thee not thou art o'er- -watch'd
Call Clau- -dio and some oth- -er of my men
I'll have them sleep on cush- -ions in my tent
Var- -ro and Clau- -dio!
En- -ter Var- -ro and Clau- -dio
Calls my lord?
I pray you sirs lie in my tent and sleep
It may be I shall raise you by and by
On busi- -ness to my broth- -er Cas- -sius
So please you we will stand and watch your plea- -sure
I would not have it so Lie down good sirs
It may be I shall oth- -er- -wise be- -think me
Look Lu- -cius here's the book I sought for so
I put it in the pock- -et of my gown
Var- -ro and Clau- -dio lie down
I was sure your lord- -ship did not give it me
Bear with me good boy I am much for- -get- -ful
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile
And touch thy in- -stru- -ment a strain or two?
Ay my lord an't please you
It does my boy
I trou- -ble thee too much but thou art will- -ing
It is my du- -ty sir
I should not urge thy du- -ty past thy might
I know young bloods look for a time of rest
I have slept my lord al- -ready
It was well done and thou shalt sleep again
I will not hold thee long If I do live
I will be good to thee Mu- -sic and a song
This is a sleepy tune O mur- -th- -er- -ous slum- -ber
Layest thou thy lead- -en mace up- -on my boy
That plays thee mu- -sic? Gen- -tle knave good night
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee
If thou dost nod thou break'st thy in- -stru- -ment
I'll take it from thee and good boy good night
Let me see let me see is not the leaf turn'd down
Where I left read- -ing? Here it is I think Sits down
En- -ter the Ghost of Cae- -sar
How ill this ta- -per burn- -s! Ha who comes here?
I think it is the weak- -ness of mine eyes
That shapes this mon- -strous ap- -pari- -tion
It comes up- -on me Art thou any- -thing?
Art thou some god some an- -gel or some dev- -il
That mak- -est my blood cold and my hair to stare?
Speak to me what thou art
Thy evil spir- -it Bru- -tus
Why comest thou?
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philip- -pi
Well then I shall see thee again?
Ay at Philip- -pi
Why I will see thee at Philip- -pi then Ex- -it Ghost
Now I have tak- -en heart thou van- -ish- -est
Ill spir- -it I would hold more talk with thee
Boy! Lu- -cius! Var- -ro! Clau- -dio! Sirs awake!
Clau- -dio!
The strings my lord are false
He thinks he still is at his in- -stru- -ment
Lu- -cius awake!
My lord?
Didst thou dream Lu- -cius that thou so criedst out?
My lord I do not know that I did cry
Yes that thou didst Didst thou see any- -thing?
Noth- -ing my lord
Sleep again Lu- -cius Sir- -rah Clau- -dio!
[To Var- -ro.] Fel- -low thou awake!
My lord?
My lord?
Why did you so cry out sirs in your sleep?
CLAU- -DIO Did we my lord?
Ay saw you any- -thing?
No my lord I saw noth- -ing
Nor I my lord
Go and com- -mend me to my broth- -er Cas- -sius
Bid him set on his pow- -ers be- -times be- -fore
And we will fol- -low
CLAU- -DIO It shall be done my lord Exe- -unt
Now Antony our hopes are an- -swered
You said the en- -e- -my would not come down
But keep the hills and up- -per re- -gions
It proves not so Their bat- -tles are at hand
They mean to warn us at Philip- -pi here
An- -swer- -ing be- -fore we do de- -mand of them
Tut I am in their bo- -soms and I know
Where- -fore they do it They could be con- -tent
To vis- -it oth- -er places and come down
With fear- -ful brav- -ery think- -ing by this face
To fas- -ten in our thoughts that they have courage
But 'tis not so
En- -ter a Mes- -sen- -ger
Pre- -pare you gen- -er- -als
The en- -e- -my comes on in gal- -lant show
Their bloody sign of bat- -tle is hung out
And some- -thing to be done im- -me- -di- -ate- -ly
Oc- -tavius lead your bat- -tle soft- -ly on
Up- -on the left hand of the even field
Up- -on the right hand I keep thou the left
Why do you cross me in this ex- -i- -gen- -t?
I do not cross you but I will do so
March Drum En- -ter Bru- -tus Cas- -sius and their Army
Lu- -cil- -ius Ti- -tinius Mes- -sala and oth- -ers
They stand and would have par- -ley
Stand fast Ti- -tinius we must out and talk
Mark Antony shall we give sign of bat- -tle?
No Cae- -sar we will an- -swer on their charge
Make forth the gen- -er- -als would have some words
Stir not un- -til the sig- -nal not un- -til the sig- -nal
Words be- -fore blows Is it so coun- -try- -men?
Not that we love words bet- -ter as you do
Good words are bet- -ter than bad strokes Oc- -tavius
In your bad strokes Bru- -tus you give good words
Wit- -ness the hole you made in Cae- -sar's heart
Cry- -ing "Long live! Hail Cae- -sar!"
Antony
The pos- -ture of your blows are yet un- -known
But for your words they rob the Hy- -bla bees
And leave them hon- -ey- -less
Not stin- -g- -less too
O yes and sound- -less too
For you have stol'n their buzzing Antony
And very wise- -ly threat be- -fore you sting
Vil- -lain- -s! You did not so when your vile dag- -gers
Hack- -'d one an- -oth- -er in the sides of Cae- -sar
You show'd your teeth like apes and fawn'd like hounds
And bow'd like bond- -men kiss- -ing Cae- -sar's feet
Whilst damned Cas- -ca like a cur be- -hind
Strooke Cae- -sar on the neck O you flat- -ter- -ers!
Flat- -ter- -ers? Now Bru- -tus thank your- -self
This tongue had not of- -fend- -ed so to- -day
If Cas- -sius might have ruled
Come come the cause If ar- -gu- -ing make us sweat
The proof of it will turn to red- -der drops
Look
I draw a sword against con- -spir- -a- -tors
When think you that the sword goes up again?
Nev- -er till Cae- -sar's three and thir- -ty wounds
Be well avenged or till an- -oth- -er Cae- -sar
Have added slaugh- -ter to the sword of traitors
Cae- -sar thou canst not die by traitors' hands
Un- -less thou bring'st them with thee
So I hope
I was not born to die on Bru- -tus' sword
O if thou wert the no- -blest of thy strain
Young man thou couldst not die more hon- -or- -able
A peev- -ish school boy worth- -less of such hon- -or
Join'd with a masker and a rev- -el- -er!
Old Cas- -sius stil- -l!
Come Antony away!
De- -fi- -ance traitors hurl we in your teeth
If you dare fight to- -day come to the field
If not when you have stom- -achs
Exe- -unt Oc- -tavius Antony and their Army
Why now blow and swell bil- -low and swim bark!
The storm is up and all is on the haz- -ard
Ho Lu- -cil- -ius! Hark a word with you
[S- -tands forth.] My lord?
Bru- -tus and Lu- -cil- -ius con- -verse apart
Mes- -sala!
[S- -tands forth.] What says my gen- -er- -al?
Mes- -sala
This is my birth- -day as this very day
Was Cas- -sius born Give me thy hand Mes- -sala
Be thou my wit- -ness that against my will
As Pom- -pey was am I com- -pel- -l'd to set
Up- -on one bat- -tle all our lib- -er- -ties
You know that I held Epi- -cu- -rus strong
And his opin- -ion Now I change my mind
And part- -ly cred- -it things that do presage
Com- -ing from Sardis on our for- -mer en- -sign
Two mighty ea- -gles fell and there they per- -ch'd
Gorg- -ing and feed- -ing from our sol- -dier- -s' hands
Who to Philip- -pi here con- -sort- -ed us
This morn- -ing are they fled away and gone
And in their steads do ravens crows and kites
Fly o'er our heads and down- -ward look on us
As we were sick- -ly prey Their shad- -ows seem
A canopy most fa- -tal un- -der which
Our army lies ready to give up the ghost
Be- -lieve not so
I but be- -lieve it part- -ly
For I am fresh of spir- -it and re- -solved
To meet all per- -ils very con- -stant- -ly
Even so Lu- -cil- -ius
Now most no- -ble Bru- -tus
The gods to- -day stand friend- -ly that we may
Lovers in peace lead on our days to age!
But since the af- -fairs of men rest still in- -cer- -tain
Let's rea- -son with the worst that may be- -fall
If we do lose this bat- -tle then is this
The very last time we shall speak to- -geth- -er
What are you then de- -ter- -mined to do?
Even by the rule of that phi- -los- -o- -phy
By which I did blame Cato for the death
Which he did give him- -self I know not how
But I do find it cow- -ard- -ly and vile
For fear of what might fall so to pre- -vent
The time of life arm- -ing my- -self with pa- -tience
To stay the prov- -i- -dence of some high pow- -ers
That gov- -ern us be- -low
Then if we lose this bat- -tle
You are con- -tent- -ed to be led in tri- -umph
Thor- -ough the streets of Rome?
No Cas- -sius no Think not thou no- -ble Ro- -man
That ev- -er Bru- -tus will go bound to Rome
He bears too great a mind But this same day
Must end that work the ides of March be- -gun
And whether we shall meet again I know not
There- -fore our ev- -er- -last- -ing farewell take
For- -ev- -er and for- -ev- -er farewell Cas- -sius!
If we do meet again why we shall smile
If not why then this part- -ing was well made
For- -ev- -er and for- -ev- -er farewell Bru- -tus!
If we do meet again we'll smile in- -deed
If not 'tis true this part- -ing was well made
Why then lead on O that a man might know
The end of this day's busi- -ness ere it come!
But it suf- -ficeth that the day will end
And then the end is known Come ho! Away! Exe- -unt
Ride ride Mes- -sala ride and give these bills
Un- -to the le- -gions on the oth- -er side Loud alarum
Let them set on at once for I per- -ceive
But cold de- -meanor in Oc- -tavi- -a's wing
And sud- -den push gives them the over- -throw
Ride ride Mes- -sala Let them all come down Exe- -unt
O look Ti- -tinius look the vil- -lains fly!
My- -self have to mine own turn'd en- -e- -my
This en- -sign here of mine was turn- -ing back
I slew the cow- -ard and did take it from him
O Cas- -sius Bru- -tus gave the word too ear- -ly
Who hav- -ing some ad- -van- -tage on Oc- -tavius
Took it too ea- -ger- -ly His sol- -diers fell to spoil
Whilst we by Antony are all en- -closed
En- -ter Pin- -darus
Fly fur- -ther off my lord fly fur- -ther off
Mark Antony is in your tents my lord
Fly there- -fore no- -ble Cas- -sius fly far off
This hill is far enough Look look Ti- -tinius
Are those my tents where I per- -ceive the fire?
They are my lord
Ti- -tinius if thou lovest me
Mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him
Till he have brought thee up to yon- -der troops
And here again that I may rest as- -sured
Whether yond troops are friend or en- -e- -my
I will be here again even with a thought Ex- -it
Go Pin- -darus get high- -er on that hill
My sight was ev- -er thick re- -gard Ti- -tinius
And tell me what thou notest about the field
Pin- -darus as- -cends the hill
This day I breathed first time is come round
And where I did be- -gin there shall I end
My life is run his com- -pass Sir- -rah what news?
[Above.] O my lord!
What news?
[Above.] Ti- -tinius is en- -closed round about
With horse- -men that make to him on the spur
Yet he spurs on Now they are al- -most on him
Now Ti- -tinius! Now some light O he lights too
He's ta'en [Shout.] And hark! They shout for joy
Come down be- -hold no more
O cow- -ard that I am to live so long
To see my best friend ta'en be- -fore my face!
Pin- -darus de- -scends
Come hith- -er sir- -rah
In Parthia did I take thee pris- -on- -er
And then I swore thee sav- -ing of thy life
That what- -so- -ev- -er I did bid thee do
Thou shouldst at- -tempt it Come now keep thine oath
Now be a free- -man and with this good sword
That ran through Cae- -sar's bow- -els search this bo- -som
Stand not to an- -swer here take thou the hilts
And when my face is cov- -er'd as 'tis now
Guide thou the sword [Pin- -darus stabs him.] Cae- -sar thou art
re- -venged
Even with the sword that kil- -l'd thee Dies
So I am free yet would not so have been
Durst I have done my will O Cas- -sius!
Far from this coun- -try Pin- -darus shall run
Where nev- -er Ro- -man shall take note of him Ex- -it
Re- -en- -ter Ti- -tinius with Mes- -sala
It is but change Ti- -tinius for Oc- -tavius
Is over- -thrown by no- -ble Bru- -tus' pow- -er
As Cas- -sius' le- -gions are by Antony
These tid- -ings would well com- -fort Cas- -sius
Where did you leave him?
All dis- -con- -so- -late
With Pin- -darus his bond- -man on this hill
Is not that he that lies up- -on the ground?
He lies not like the liv- -ing O my heart!
Is not that he?
No this was he Mes- -sala
But Cas- -sius is no more O set- -ting sun
As in thy red rays thou dost sink to night
So in his red blood Cas- -sius' day is set
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone
Clouds dews and dan- -gers come our deeds are done!
Mis- -trust of my suc- -cess hath done this deed
Mis- -trust of good suc- -cess hath done this deed
O hate- -ful er- -ror melan- -choly's child
Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
The things that are not? O er- -ror soon con- -ceived
Thou nev- -er comest un- -to a hap- -py birth
But kil- -l'st the moth- -er that en- -gen- -der'd thee!
What Pin- -darus! Where art thou Pin- -darus?
Seek him Ti- -tinius whilst I go to meet
The no- -ble Bru- -tus thrust- -ing this re- -port
In- -to his ears I may say "thrust- -ing" it
For pierc- -ing steel and darts en- -ven- -omed
Shall be as wel- -come to the ears of Bru- -tus
As tid- -ings of this sight
Hie you Mes- -sala
And I will seek for Pin- -darus the while Ex- -it Mes- -sala
Why didst thou send me forth brave Cas- -sius?
Did I not meet thy friend- -s? And did not they
Put on my brows this wreath of vic- -to- -ry
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shout- -s?
Alas thou hast mis- -con- -strued ev- -ery- -thing!
But hold thee take this gar- -land on thy brow
Thy Bru- -tus bid me give it thee and I
Will do his bid- -ding Bru- -tus come apace
And see how I re- -gard- -ed Caius Cas- -sius
By your leave gods this is a Ro- -man's part
Come Cas- -sius' sword and find Ti- -tinius' heart
Kills him- -self
Alarum Re- -en- -ter Mes- -sala with Bru- -tus young Cato
and oth- -ers
Where where Mes- -sala doth his body lie?
Lo yon- -der and Ti- -tinius mourn- -ing it
Ti- -tinius' face is up- -ward
He is slain
O Julius Cae- -sar thou art mighty yet!
Thy spir- -it walks abroad and turns our swords
In our own prop- -er en- -trails Low alarums
Brave Ti- -tinius!
Look whe'er he have not crown'd dead Cas- -sius!
Are yet two Ro- -mans liv- -ing such as the- -se?
The last of all the Ro- -mans fare thee well!
It is im- -pos- -si- -ble that ev- -er Rome
Should breed thy fel- -low Friends I owe moe tears
To this dead man than you shall see me pay
I shall find time Cas- -sius I shall find time
Come there- -fore and to Tha- -sos send his body
His fu- -ner- -als shall not be in our camp
Lest it dis- -com- -fort us Lu- -cil- -ius come
And come young Cato let us to the field
Labio and Flavio set our bat- -tles on
'Tis three o'- -clock and Ro- -mans yet ere night
We shall try for- -tune in a sec- -ond fight Exe- -unt
Yet coun- -try- -men O yet hold up your head- -s!
What bas- -tard doth not? Who will go with me?
I will pro- -claim my name about the field
I am the son of Mar- -cus Cato ho!
A foe to tyrants and my coun- -try's friend
I am the son of Mar- -cus Cato ho!
And I am Bru- -tus Mar- -cus Bru- -tus I
Bru- -tus my coun- -try's friend know me for Bru- -tus! Ex- -it
O young and no- -ble Cato art thou down?
Why now thou di- -est as brave- -ly as Ti- -tinius
And mayst be hon- -or'd be- -ing Cato's son
Yield or thou di- -est
On- -ly I yield to die
[Of- -fers mon- -ey.] There is so much that thou wilt kill me
Kill Bru- -tus and be hon- -or'd in his death
We must not A no- -ble pris- -on- -er!
Room ho! Tell Antony Bru- -tus is ta'en
I'll tell the news Here comes the gen- -er- -al
En- -ter Antony
Bru- -tus is ta'en Bru- -tus is ta'en my lord
Where is he?
Safe Antony Bru- -tus is safe enough
I dare as- -sure thee that no en- -e- -my
Shall ev- -er take alive the no- -ble Bru- -tus
The gods de- -fend him from so great a shame!
When you do find him or alive or dead
He will be found like Bru- -tus like him- -self
This is not Bru- -tus friend but I as- -sure you
A prize no less in worth Keep this man safe
Give him all kind- -ness I had rather have
Such men my friends than en- -e- -mies Go on
And see wheer Bru- -tus be alive or dead
And bring us word un- -to Oc- -tavius' tent
How ev- -ery- -thing is chanced Exe- -unt
Come poor re- -mains of friends rest on this rock
Statil- -ius show'd the torch- -light but my lord
He came not back He is or ta'en or slain
Sit thee down Cli- -tus Slay- -ing is the word
It is a deed in fash- -ion Hark thee Cli- -tus Whis- -pers
What I my lord? No not for all the world
Peace then no words
I'll rather kill my- -self
Hark thee Dar- -d- -a- -nius Whis- -pers
Shall I do such a deed?
O Dar- -d- -a- -nius!
O Cli- -tus!
What ill re- -quest did Bru- -tus make to thee?
To kill him Cli- -tus Look he med- -i- -tates
Now is that no- -ble ves- -sel full of grief
That it runs over even at his eyes
Come hith- -er good Volum- -nius list a word
What says my lord?
Why this Volum- -nius
The ghost of Cae- -sar hath ap- -pear'd to me
Two sev- -er- -al times by night at Sardis once
And this last night here in Philip- -pi fields
I know my hour is come
Not so my lord
Nay I am sure it is Volum- -nius
Thou seest the world Volum- -nius how it goes
Our en- -e- -mies have beat us to the pit Low alarums
It is more wor- -thy to leap in our- -selves
Than tar- -ry till they push us Good Volum- -nius
Thou know'st that we two went to school to- -geth- -er
Even for that our love of old I prithee
Hold thou my sword- -hilts whilst I run on it
That's not an of- -fice for a friend my lord
Alarum still
Fly fly my lord there is no tar- -ry- -ing here
Farewell to you and you and you Volum- -nius
Stra- -to thou hast been all this while asleep
Farewell to thee too Stra- -to Coun- -try- -men
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
I found no man but he was true to me
I shall have glo- -ry by this los- -ing day
More than Oc- -tavius and Mark Antony
By this vile con- -quest shall at- -tain un- -to
So fare you well at once for Bru- -tus' tongue
Hath al- -most end- -ed his life's his- -to- -ry
Night hangs up- -on mine eyes my bones would rest
That have but labor'd to at- -tain this hour
Alarum Cry with- -in "Fly fly fly- -!"
Fly my lord fly
Hence! I will fol- -low
Exe- -unt Cli- -tus Dar- -d- -a- -nius and Volum- -nius
I prithee Stra- -to stay thou by thy lord
Thou art a fel- -low of a good re- -spect
Thy life hath had some smatch of hon- -or in it
Hold then my sword and turn away thy face
While I do run up- -on it Wilt thou Stra- -to?
Give me your hand first Fare you well my lord
Farewell good Stra- -to Runs on his sword
Cae- -sar now be still
I kil- -l'd not thee with half so good a will Dies
Alarum Re- -treat En- -ter Oc- -tavius Antony Mes- -sala
Lu- -cil- -ius and the Army
What man is that?
My mas- -ter's man Stra- -to where is thy mas- -ter?
Free from the bondage you are in Mes- -sala
The con- -querors can but make a fire of him
For Bru- -tus on- -ly over- -came him- -self
And no man else hath hon- -or by his death
So Bru- -tus should be found I thank thee Bru- -tus
That thou hast proved Lu- -cil- -ius' say- -ing true
All that served Bru- -tus I will en- -ter- -tain them
Fel- -low wilt thou be- -stow thy time with me?
Ay if Mes- -sala will pre- -fer me to you
Do so good Mes- -sala
How died my mas- -ter Stra- -to?
I held the sword and he did run on it
Oc- -tavius then take him to fol- -low thee
That did the lat- -est ser- -vice to my mas- -ter
This was the no- -blest Ro- -man of them all
All the con- -spir- -a- -tors save on- -ly he
Did that they did in en- -vy of great Cae- -sar
He on- -ly in a gen- -er- -al hon- -est thought
And com- -mon good to all made one of them
His life was gen- -tle and the el- -e- -ments
So mix'd in him that Na- -ture might stand up
And say to all the world "This was a man!"
Ac- -cord- -ing to his virtue let us use him
With all re- -spect and rites of buri- -al
With- -in my tent his bones tonight shall lie
Most like a sol- -dier or- -dered hon- -or- -ably
So call the field to rest and let's away
To part the glo- -ries of this hap- -py day Exe- -unt