When shall we three meet again?
In thun- -der light- -ning or in rain?
When the hurly- -burly's done
When the bat- -tle's lost and won
That will be ere the set of sun
Where the place?
Up- -on the heath
There to meet with Mac- -beth
I come Gray- -malkin
Pad- -dock calls Anon!
Fair is foul and foul is fair
Hov- -er through the fog and filthy air Exe- -unt
What bloody man is that? He can re- -port
As seemeth by his plight of the re- -volt
The new- -est state
This is the sergeant
Who like a good and hardy sol- -dier fought
'Gainst my cap- -tiv- -i- -ty Hail brave friend!
Say to the King the knowl- -edge of the broil
As thou didst leave it
Doubt- -ful it stood
As two spent swim- -mers that do cling to- -geth- -er
And choke their art The mer- -ci- -less Mac- -don- -wald
Wor- -thy to be a rebel for to that
The mul- -ti- -ply- -ing vil- -lainies of na- -ture
Do swarm up- -on him from the West- -ern Isles
Of kerns and gal- -low- -glass- -es is sup- -plied
And For- -tune on his damned quar- -rel smil- -ing
Show'd like a re- -bel's whore But al- -l's too weak
For brave Mac- -beth well he de- -serves that name
Dis- -dain- -ing For- -tune with his bran- -dish'd steel
Which smoked with bloody ex- -e- -cu- -tion
Like Val- -or's min- -ion carved out his pas- -sage
Till he faced the slave
Which ne'er shook hands nor bade farewell to him
Till he un- -seam'd him from the nave to the chaps
And fix'd his head up- -on our bat- -tle- -ments
O valiant cous- -in! Wor- -thy gen- -tle- -man!
As whence the sun 'gins his re- -flec- -tion
Ship- -wreck- -ing storms and dire- -ful thun- -ders break
So from that spring whence com- -fort seem'd to come
Dis- -com- -fort swells Mark King of Scot- -land mark
No soon- -er jus- -tice had with val- -or ar- -m'd
Com- -pel- -l'd these skip- -ping kerns to trust their heels
But the Nor- -weyan lord sur- -vey- -ing van- -tage
With fur- -bish'd arms and new sup- -plies of men
Be- -gan a fresh as- -sault
Dis- -may'd not this
Our cap- -tains Mac- -beth and Ban- -quo.?
Yes
As spar- -rows ea- -gles or the hare the li- -on
If I say sooth I must re- -port they were
As can- -nons over- -charged with dou- -ble cracks
So they
Dou- -bly re- -dou- -bled strokes up- -on the foe
Ex- -cept they meant to bathe in reek- -ing wounds
Or mem- -o- -rize an- -oth- -er Gol- -go- -tha
I can- -not tell
But I am faint my gash- -es cry for help
So well thy words be- -come thee as thy wounds
They smack of hon- -or both Go get him sur- -geons
Ex- -it Sergeant at- -tend- -ed
Who comes here?
En- -ter Ross
MAL- -COLM The wor- -thy Thane of Ross
What a haste looks through his eye- -s! So should he look
That seems to speak things strange
God save the King!
Whence camest thou wor- -thy Thane?
From Fife great King
Where the Nor- -weyan ban- -ners flout the sky
And fan our peo- -ple cold
Nor- -way him- -self with ter- -ri- -ble num- -bers
As- -sist- -ed by that most dis- -loy- -al traitor
The Thane of Caw- -dor be- -gan a dis- -mal con- -flict
Till that Bel- -lon- -a's bride- -groom lap- -p'd in proof
Con- -front- -ed him with self- -- -- -com- -par- -isons
Point against point re- -bel- -lious arm 'gainst arm
Curb- -ing his lav- -ish spir- -it and to con- -clude
The vic- -to- -ry fell on us
Great hap- -pi- -ness!
That now
Sweno the Nor- -ways' king craves com- -po- -si- -tion
Nor would we deign him buri- -al of his men
Till he dis- -bursed at Saint Colme's Inch
Ten thou- -sand dol- -lars to our gen- -er- -al use
No more that Thane of Caw- -dor shall de- -ceive
Our bo- -som in- -ter- -est Go pro- -nounce his present death
And with his for- -mer ti- -tle greet Mac- -beth
I'll see it done
What he hath lost no- -ble Mac- -beth hath won
Exe- -unt
Where hast thou been sis- -ter?
Killing swine
Sis- -ter where thou?
A sailor's wife had chest- -nuts in her lap
And mounch'd and mounch'd and mounch'd "Give me," quoth I
"Aroint thee witch!" the rump- -fed rony- -on cries
Her hus- -band's to Alep- -po gone mas- -ter the Tiger
But in a sieve I'll thith- -er sail
And like a rat with- -out a tail
I'll do I'll do and I'll do
I'll give thee a wind
Thou'rt kind
And I an- -oth- -er
I my- -self have all the oth- -er
And the very ports they blow
All the quar- -ters that they know
I' the ship- -man's card
I will drain him dry as hay
Sleep shall nei- -ther night nor day
Hang up- -on his pent- -house lid
He shall live a man for- -bid
Weary se'n- -nights nine times nine
Shall he dwin- -dle peak and pine
Though his bark can- -not be lost
Yet it shall be tem- -pest- -- -toss'd
Look what I have
Show me show me
Here I have a pi- -lot's thumb
Wreck- -'d as home- -ward he did come Drum with- -in
A drum a drum!
Mac- -beth doth come
The weird sis- -ters hand in hand
Posters of the sea and land
Thus do go about about
Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
And thrice again to make up nine
Peace! The char- -m's wound up
En- -ter Mac- -beth and Ban- -quo
So foul and fair a day I have not seen
How far is't cal- -l'd to For- -res? What are these
So with- -er'd and so wild in their at- -tire
That look not like the in- -hab- -i- -tants o' the earth
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
That man may ques- -tion? You seem to un- -der- -stand me
By each at once her chop- -py fin- -ger lay- -ing
Up- -on her skin- -ny lips You should be wom- -en
And yet your beards for- -bid me to in- -ter- -pret
That you are so
Speak if you can What are you?
All hail Mac- -beth hail to thee Thane of Glamis!
All hail Mac- -beth hail to thee Thane of Caw- -dor!
All hail Mac- -beth that shalt be King here- -after!
Good sir why do you start and seem to fear
Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth
Are ye fan- -tas- -ti- -cal or that in- -deed
Which out- -ward- -ly ye show? My no- -ble part- -ner
You greet with present grace and great pre- -dic- -tion
Of no- -ble hav- -ing and of roy- -al hope
That he seems rapt with- -al To me you speak not
If you can look in- -to the seeds of time
And say which grain will grow and which will not
Speak then to me who nei- -ther beg nor fear
Your fa- -vors nor your hate
Hail!
Hail!
Hail!
Less- -er than Mac- -beth and greater
Not so hap- -py yet much hap- -pi- -er
Thou shalt get kings though thou be none
So all hail Mac- -beth and Ban- -quo!
Ban- -quo and Mac- -beth all hail!
Stay you im- -per- -fect speak- -ers tell me more
By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis
But how of Caw- -dor? The Thane of Caw- -dor lives
A pros- -per- -ous gen- -tle- -man and to be King
Stands not with- -in the prospect of be- -lief
No more than to be Caw- -dor Say from whence
You owe this strange in- -tel- -li- -gence or why
Up- -on this blast- -ed heath you stop our way
With such prophet- -ic greet- -ing? Speak I charge you
Witch- -es van- -ish
The earth hath bub- -bles as the wa- -ter has
And these are of them Whith- -er are they van- -ish'd?
In- -to the air and what seem'd cor- -po- -ral melt- -ed
As breath in- -to the wind Would they had stay'd!
Were such things here as we do speak about?
Or have we eat- -en on the in- -sane root
That takes the rea- -son pris- -on- -er?
Your chil- -dren shall be kings
You shall be King
And Thane of Caw- -dor too Went it not so?
To the self- -same tune and words Who's here?
En- -ter Ross and An- -gus
The King hath hap- -pi- -ly re- -ceived Mac- -beth
The news of thy suc- -cess and when he reads
Thy per- -son- -al ven- -ture in the rebel- -s' fight
His won- -ders and his prais- -es do con- -tend
Which should be thine or his Si- -lenced with that
In view- -ing o'er the rest o' the self- -same day
He finds thee in the stout Nor- -weyan ranks
Noth- -ing afeard of what thy- -self didst make
Strange im- -ages of death As thick as hail
Came post with post and ev- -ery one did bear
Thy prais- -es in his king- -dom's great de- -fense
And pour'd them down be- -fore him
We are sent
To give thee from our roy- -al mas- -ter thanks
On- -ly to her- -ald thee in- -to his sight
Not pay thee
And for an earnest of a greater hon- -or
He bade me from him call thee Thane of Caw- -dor
In which ad- -di- -tion hail most wor- -thy Thane
For it is thine
What can the dev- -il speak true?
The Thane of Caw- -dor lives Why do you dress me
In bor- -row'd robes?
Who was the Thane lives yet
But un- -der heavy judge- -ment bears that life
Which he de- -serves to lose Whether he was com- -bined
With those of Nor- -way or did line the rebel
With hid- -den help and van- -tage or that with both
He labor'd in his coun- -try's wreck I know not
But trea- -sons cap- -i- -tal con- -fess'd and proved
Have over- -thrown him
[A- -side.] Glamis and Thane of Caw- -dor!
The great- -est is be- -hind [To Ross and An- -gus] Thanks for your
pains
[A- -side to Ban- -quo] Do you not hope your chil- -dren shall be
When those that gave the Thane of Caw- -dor to me
Promised no less to them?
[A- -side to Mac- -beth.] That trust- -ed home
Might yet enkin- -dle you un- -to the crown
Be- -sides the Thane of Caw- -dor But 'tis strange
And of- -ten- -times to win us to our harm
The in- -stru- -ments of dark- -ness tell us truths
Win us with hon- -est tri- -fles to be- -tray's
In deep- -est con- -se- -quence
Cousins a word I pray you
[A- -side.] Two truths are told
As hap- -py pro- -logues to the swelling act
Of the im- -pe- -ri- -al the- -me- -I thank you gen- -tle- -men
[A- -side.] This su- -per- -nat- -u- -ral so- -lic- -it- -ing
Can- -not be ill can- -not be good If ill
Why hath it giv- -en me earnest of suc- -cess
Com- -menc- -ing in a truth? I am Thane of Caw- -dor
If good why do I yield to that sug- -ges- -tion
Whose hor- -rid im- -age doth un- -fix my hair
And make my seat- -ed heart knock at my ribs
Against the use of na- -ture? Present fears
Are less than hor- -ri- -ble imag- -in- -ings
My thought whose mur- -ther yet is but fan- -tas- -ti- -cal
Shakes so my sin- -gle state of man that func- -tion
Is smoth- -er'd in sur- -mise and noth- -ing is
But what is not
Look how our part- -ner's rapt
[A- -side.] If chance will have me King why chance may
crown me
With- -out my stir
New hon- -ors come up- -on him
Like our strange gar- -ments cleave not to their mould
But with the aid of use
[A- -side.] Come what come may
Time and the hour runs through the rough- -est day
Wor- -thy Mac- -beth we stay up- -on your leisure
Give me your fa- -vor my dull brain was wrought
With things for- -got- -ten Kind gen- -tle- -men your pains
Are reg- -is- -ter'd where ev- -ery day I turn
The leaf to read them Let us to- -ward the King
Think up- -on what hath chanced and at more time
The in- -ter- -im hav- -ing weigh'd it let us speak
Our free hearts each to oth- -er
Very glad- -ly
Till then enough Come friends Exe- -unt
Is ex- -e- -cu- -tion done on Caw- -dor? Are not
Those in com- -mis- -sion yet re- -turn'd?
My liege
They are not yet come back But I have spoke
With one that saw him die who did re- -port
That very frankly he con- -fess'd his trea- -sons
Im- -plored your High- -ness' par- -don and set forth
A deep re- -pen- -tance Noth- -ing in his life
Be- -came him like the leav- -ing it he died
As one that had been stud- -ied in his death
To throw away the dear- -est thing he owed
As 'twere a care- -less tri- -fle
There's no art
To find the mind's con- -struc- -tion in the face
He was a gen- -tle- -man on whom I built
An ab- -so- -lute trust
En- -ter Mac- -beth Ban- -quo Ross and An- -gus
O wor- -thi- -est cous- -in!
The sin of my in- -grat- -i- -tude even now
Was heavy on me Thou art so far be- -fore
That swiftest wing of rec- -om- -pense is slow
To over- -take thee Would thou hadst less de- -served
That the pro- -por- -tion both of thanks and pay- -ment
Might have been mine! On- -ly I have left to say
More is thy due than more than all can pay
The ser- -vice and the loy- -al- -ty lowe
In do- -ing it pays it- -self Your High- -ness' part
Is to re- -ceive our du- -ties and our du- -ties
Are to your throne and state chil- -dren and ser- -vants
Which do but what they should by do- -ing ev- -ery- -thing
Safe to- -ward your love and hon- -or
Wel- -come hith- -er
I have be- -gun to plant thee and will la- -bor
To make thee full of grow- -ing No- -ble Ban- -quo
That hast no less de- -served nor must be known
No less to have done so let me in- -fold thee
And hold thee to my heart
There if I grow
The har- -vest is your own
My plen- -teous joys
Wan- -ton in full- -ness seek to hide them- -selves
In drops of sor- -row Sons kins- -men thanes
And you whose places are the near- -est know
We will es- -tab- -lish our es- -tate up- -on
Our el- -dest Mal- -colm whom we name here- -after
The Prince of Cum- -ber- -land which hon- -or must
Not un- -ac- -com- -pa- -nied in- -vest him on- -ly
But signs of no- -ble- -ness like stars shall shine
On all de- -servers From hence to In- -ver- -ness
And bind us fur- -ther to you
The rest is la- -bor which is not used for you
I'll be my- -self the har- -bin- -ger and make joy- -ful
The hear- -ing of my wife with your ap- -proach
So humbly take my leave
My wor- -thy Caw- -dor!
[A- -side.] The Prince of Cum- -ber- -land! That is a step
On which I must fall down or else o'er- -leap
For in my way it lies Stars hide your fires
Let not light see my black and deep de- -sires
The eye wink at the hand yet let that be
Which the eye fears when it is done to see Ex- -it
True wor- -thy Ban- -quo! He is full so valiant
And in his com- -men- -da- -tions I am fed
It is a ban- -quet to me Let's af- -ter him
Whose care is gone be- -fore to bid us wel- -come
It is a peer- -less kins- -man Flour- -ish Exe- -unt
"They met me in the day of suc- -cess and I have
learned by the per- -fectest re- -port they have more in them than
mor- -tal knowl- -edge When I burned in de- -sire to ques- -tion them
fur- -ther they made them- -selves air in- -to which they van- -ished
Whiles I stood rapt in the won- -der of it came mis- -sives from
King who al- -l- -hailed me 'Thane of Caw- -dor' by which ti- -tle
be- -fore these weird sis- -ters salut- -ed me and re- -ferred me to the
com- -ing on of time with 'Hail King that shalt be!' This have
thought good to de- -liv- -er thee my dear- -est part- -ner of
that thou mightst not lose the dues of re- -joic- -ing by be- -ing
ig- -no- -rant of what great- -ness is promised thee Lay it to thy
and farewell."
Glamis thou art and Caw- -dor and shalt be
What thou art promised Yet do I fear thy na- -ture
It is too full o' the milk of hu- -man kind- -ness
To catch the near- -est way Thou wouldst be great
Art not with- -out am- -bi- -tion but with- -out
The ill- -ness should at- -tend it What thou wouldst high- -ly
That wouldst thou ho- -lily wouldst not play false
And yet wouldst wrong- -ly win Thou'ldst have great Glamis
That which cries "Thus thou must do if thou have it
And that which rather thou dost fear to do
Than wish- -est should be un- -done." Hie thee hith- -er
That I may pour my spir- -its in thine ear
And chas- -tise with the val- -or of my tongue
All that im- -pedes thee from the gold- -en round
Which fate and meta- -phys- -i- -cal aid doth seem
To have thee crown'd with- -al
En- -ter a Mes- -sen- -ger
What is your tid- -ings?
The King comes here tonight
Thou'rt mad to say it!
Is not thy mas- -ter with him? who were't so
Would have in- -for- -m'd for prepa- -ra- -tion
So please you it is true our Thane is com- -ing
One of my fel- -lows had the speed of him
Who al- -most dead for breath had scarce- -ly more
Than would make up his mes- -sage
Give him tend- -ing
He brings great news Ex- -it Mes- -sen- -ger
The raven him- -self is hoarse
That croaks the fa- -tal en- -trance of Dun- -can
Un- -der my bat- -tle- -ments Come you spir- -its
That tend on mor- -tal thoughts un- -sex me here
And fill me from the crown to the toe top- -- -full
Of direst cru- -el- -ty! Make thick my blood
Stop up the ac- -cess and pas- -sage to re- -morse
That no com- -punc- -tious vis- -it- -ings of na- -ture
Shake my fell pur- -pose nor keep peace be- -tween
The ef- -fect and it! Come to my wom- -an's breasts
And take my milk for gall your mur- -ther- -ing min- -is- -ters
Wher- -ev- -er in your sight- -less sub- -stances
You wait on na- -ture's mis- -chief! Come thick night
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes
Nor heav- -en peep through the blan- -ket of the dark
To cry "Hold hold!"
En- -ter Mac- -beth
Great Glamis! Wor- -thy Caw- -dor!
Greater than both by the al- -l- -hail here- -after!
Thy let- -ters have trans- -port- -ed me be- -yond
This ig- -no- -rant present and I feel now
The fu- -ture in the in- -stant
My dear- -est love
Dun- -can comes here tonight
And when goes hence?
To- -mor- -row as he pur- -pos- -es
O nev- -er
Shall sun that mor- -row see!
Your face my Thane is as a book where men
May read strange mat- -ters To be- -guile the time
Look like the time bear wel- -come in your eye
Your hand your tongue look like the in- -no- -cent flow- -er
But be the ser- -pent un- -der it He that's com- -ing
Must be pro- -vid- -ed for and you shall put
This night's great busi- -ness in- -to my dis- -patch
Which shall to all our nights and days to come
Give sole- -ly sov- -er- -eign sway and mas- -ter- -dom
We will speak fur- -ther
On- -ly look up clear
To al- -ter fa- -vor ev- -er is to fear
Leave all the rest to me Exe- -unt
This cas- -tle hath a pleas- -ant seat the air
Nim- -bly and sweet- -ly rec- -om- -mends it- -self
Un- -to our gen- -tle sens- -es
This guest of sum- -mer
The tem- -ple- -haunt- -ing mart- -let does ap- -prove
By his loved man- -sion- -ry that the heav- -en's breath
Smells woo- -ing- -ly here No jut- -ty frieze
But- -tress nor coign of van- -tage but this bird
Hath made his pen- -dant bed and pro- -cre- -ant cra- -dle
Where they most breed and haunt I have ob- -served
The air is del- -i- -cate
En- -ter La- -dy Mac- -beth
See see our hon- -or'd hostess!
The love that fol- -lows us some- -time is our trou- -ble
Which still we thank as love Here- -in I teach you
How you shall bid God 'ield us for your pains
And thank us for your trou- -ble
All our ser- -vice
In ev- -ery point twice done and then done dou- -ble
Were poor and sin- -gle busi- -ness to con- -tend
Against those hon- -ors deep and broad where- -with
Your Majesty loads our house For those of old
And the late dig- -ni- -ties heap'd up to them
We rest your her- -mits
Where's the Thane of Caw- -dor?
We coursed him at the heels and had a pur- -pose
To be his pur- -vey- -or but he rides well
And his great love sharp as his spur hath holp him
To his home be- -fore us Fair and no- -ble host- -ess
We are your guest tonight
Your ser- -vants ev- -er
Have theirs them- -selves and what is theirs in compt
To make their au- -dit at your High- -ness' plea- -sure
Still to re- -turn your own
Give me your hand
Con- -duct me to mine host We love him high- -ly
And shall con- -tin- -ue our graces to- -wards him
By your leave host- -ess Exe- -unt
If it were done when 'tis done then 'twere well
It were done quick- -ly If the as- -sas- -si- -na- -tion
Could tram- -mel up the con- -se- -quence and catch
With his surcease suc- -cess that but this blow
Might be the be- -all and the end- -all here
But here up- -on this bank and shoal of time
We'ld jump the life to come But in these cas- -es
We still have judge- -ment here that we but teach
Bloody in- -struc- -tions which be- -ing taught re- -turn
To plague the in- -ven- -tor This even- -hand- -ed jus- -tice
Com- -mends the in- -gre- -di- -ents of our poi- -son'd chal- -ice
To our own lips He's here in dou- -ble trust
First as I am his kins- -man and his sub- -ject
Strong both against the deed then as his host
Who should against his mur- -ther- -er shut the door
Not bear the knife my- -self Be- -sides this Dun- -can
Hath borne his fac- -ul- -ties so meek hath been
So clear in his great of- -fice that his virtues
Will plead like an- -gels trum- -pet- -- -tongued against
The deep damna- -tion of his tak- -ing- -off
And pity like a naked new- -born babe
Strid- -ing the blast or heav- -en's cheru- -bin horsed
Up- -on the sight- -less couri- -ers of the air
Shall blow the hor- -rid deed in ev- -ery eye
That tears shall drown the wind I have no spur
To prick the sides of my in- -tent but on- -ly
Vault- -ing am- -bi- -tion which o'er- -leaps it- -self
And falls on the oth- -er
En- -ter La- -dy Mac- -beth
How now what news?
He has al- -most sup- -p'd Why have you left the
Hath he ask'd for me?
Know you not he has?
We will pro- -ceed no fur- -ther in this busi- -ness
He hath hon- -or'd me of late and I have bought
Gold- -en opin- -ions from all sorts of peo- -ple
Which would be worn now in their new- -est gloss
Not cast aside so soon
Was the hope drunk
Where- -in you dress'd your- -self? Hath it slept since?
And wakes it now to look so green and pale
At what it did so freely? From this time
Such I ac- -count thy love Art thou afeard
To be the same in thine own act and val- -or
As thou art in de- -sire? Wouldst thou have that
Which thou es- -teem'st the or- -na- -ment of life
And live a cow- -ard in thine own es- -teem
Let- -ting "I dare not" wait up- -on "I would"
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
Prithee peace!
I dare do all that may be- -come a man
Who dares do more is none
What beast wast then
That made you break this en- -ter- -prise to me?
When you durst do it then you were a man
And to be more than what you were you would
Be so much more the man Nor time nor place
Did then ad- -here and yet you would make both
They have made them- -selves and that their fit- -ness now
Does un- -make you I have giv- -en suck and know
How ten- -der 'tis to love the babe that milks me
I would while it was smil- -ing in my face
Have pluck- -'d my nip- -ple from his bone- -less gums
And dash'd the brains out had I so sworn as you
Have done to this
If we should fail?
We fail?
But screw your courage to the stick- -ing- -- -place
And we'll not fail When Dun- -can is asleep
Where- -to the rather shall his day's hard jour- -ney
Sound- -ly in- -vite him his two cham- -ber- -lains
Will I with wine and was- -sail so con- -vince
That mem- -o- -ry the warder of the brain
Shall be a fume and the re- -ceipt of rea- -son
A lim- -beck on- -ly When in swin- -ish sleep
Their drenched na- -tures lie as in a death
What can- -not you and I per- -form up- -on
The un- -guard- -ed Dun- -can? What not put up- -on
His spongy of- -fi- -cers who shall bear the guilt
Of our great quel- -l?
Bring forth men- -chil- -dren on- -ly
For thy un- -daunt- -ed met- -tle should com- -pose
Noth- -ing but males Will it not be re- -ceived
When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
Of his own cham- -ber and used their very dag- -gers
That they have done't?
Who dares re- -ceive it oth- -er
As we shall make our griefs and clam- -or roar
Up- -on his death?
I am set- -tled and bend up
Each cor- -po- -ral agent to this ter- -ri- -ble feat
Away and mock the time with fairest show
False face must hide what the false heart doth know
Exe- -unt
How goes the night boy?
The moon is down I have not heard the clock
And she goes down at twelve
I take't 'tis lat- -er sir
Hold take my sword There's hus- -bandry in heav- -en
Their can- -dles are all out Take thee that too
A heavy sum- -mons lies like lead up- -on me
And yet I would not sleep Mer- -ci- -ful pow- -ers
Re- -strain in me the cursed thoughts that na- -ture
Gives way to in re- -pose!
En- -ter Mac- -beth and a Ser- -vant with a torch
Give me my sword
Who's there?
A friend
What sir not yet at rest? The King's abed
He hath been in un- -usu- -al plea- -sure and
Sent forth great largess to your of- -fices
This di- -a- -mond he greets your wife with- -al
By the name of most kind host- -ess and shut up
In mea- -sure- -less con- -tent
Be- -ing un- -pre- -pared
Our will be- -came the ser- -vant to de- -fect
Which else should free have wrought
Al- -l's well
I dreamt last night of the three weird sis- -ters
To you they have show'd some truth
I think not of them
Yet when we can en- -treat an hour to serve
We would spend it in some words up- -on that busi- -ness
If you would grant the time
At your kind'st leisure
If you shall cleave to my con- -sent when 'tis
It shall make hon- -or for you
So I lose none
In seek- -ing to aug- -ment it but still keep
My bo- -som fran- -chised and al- -le- -giance clear
I shall be coun- -sel'd
Good re- -pose the while
Thanks sir the like to you
Exe- -unt Ban- -quo and Fleance
Go bid thy mis- -tress when my drink is ready
She strike up- -on the bell Get thee to bed Ex- -it Ser- -vant
Is this a dag- -ger which I see be- -fore me
The han- -dle to- -ward my hand? Come let me clutch thee
I have thee not and yet I see thee still
Art thou not fa- -tal vi- -sion sen- -si- -ble
To feel- -ing as to sight? Or art thou but
A dag- -ger of the mind a false cre- -ation
Pro- -ceed- -ing from the heat- -op- -pressed brain?
I see thee yet in form as pal- -pa- -ble
As this which now I draw
Thou mar- -shal'st me the way that I was go- -ing
And such an in- -stru- -ment I was to use
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the oth- -er sens- -es
Or else worth all the rest I see thee still
And on thy blade and dud- -geon gouts of blood
Which was not so be- -fore There's no such thing
It is the bloody busi- -ness which in- -forms
Thus to mine eyes Now o'er the one half- -- -world
Na- -ture seems dead and wicked dreams abuse
The cur- -tain'd sleep witch- -craft cel- -e- -brates
Pale Hecate's of- -fer- -ings and with- -er'd Mur- -ther
Alarum'd by his sen- -tinel the wolf
Whose howl's his watch thus with his stealthy pace
With Tar- -quin's rav- -ish- -ing strides to- -wards his de- -sign
Moves like a ghost Thou sure and fir- -m- -set earth
Hear not my steps which way they walk for fear
Thy very stones prate of my where- -about
And take the present hor- -ror from the time
Which now suits with it Whiles I threat he lives
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives
A bell rings
I go and it is done the bell in- -vites me
Hear it not Dun- -can for it is a knell
That sum- -mons thee to heav- -en or to hell Ex- -it
That which hath made them drunk hath made me
What hath quench'd them hath giv- -en me fire Hark! Peace!
It was the owl that shriek'd the fa- -tal bell- -man
Which gives the stern'st good night He is about it
The doors are open and the sur- -feit- -ed grooms
Do mock their charge with snores I have drug- -g'd their
That death and na- -ture do con- -tend about them
Whether they live or die
[With- -in.] Who's there' what ho!
Alack I am afraid they have awaked
And 'tis not done The at- -tempt and not the deed
Con- -founds us Hark! I laid their dag- -gers ready
He could not miss 'em Had he not re- -sem- -bled
My fa- -ther as he slept I had done't
En- -ter Mac- -beth
My hus- -band!
I have done the deed Didst thou not hear a noise?
I heard the owl scream and the crick- -ets cry
Did not you speak?
When?
Now
As I de- -scend- -ed?
Ay
Hark!
Who lies i' the sec- -ond cham- -ber?
Don- -al- -bain
This is a sor- -ry sight [Looks on his hands
A fool- -ish thought to say a sor- -ry sight
There's one did laugh in 's sleep and one cried
"Mur- -ther!"
That they did wake each oth- -er I stood and heard them
But they did say their prayers and ad- -dress'd them
Again to sleep
There are two lodged to- -geth- -er
One cried "God bless us!" and "A- -men" the oth- -er
As they had seen me with these hang- -man's hands
Lis- -ten- -ing their fear I could not say "A- -men,"
When they did say "God bless us!"
Con- -sid- -er it not so deeply
But where- -fore could not I pro- -nounce "A- -men"?
I had most need of bless- -ing and "A- -men"
Stuck in my throat
These deeds must not be thought
Af- -ter these ways so it will make us mad
I heard a voice cry "Sleep no more!
Mac- -beth does mur- -ther sleep" the in- -no- -cent sleep
Sleep that knits up the rav- -el'd sleave of care
The death of each day's life sore labor's bath
Balm of hurt minds great na- -ture's sec- -ond course
Chief nour- -ish- -er in life's feast
What do you mean?
Still it cried "Sleep no more!" to all the house
"Glamis hath mur- -ther'd sleep and there- -fore Caw- -dor
Shall sleep no more Mac- -beth shall sleep no more."
Who was it that thus cried? Why wor- -thy Thane
You do un- -bend your no- -ble strength to think
So brain- -sick- -ly of things Go get some wa- -ter
And wash this filthy wit- -ness from your hand
Why did you bring these dag- -gers from the place?
They must lie there Go car- -ry them and smear
The sleepy grooms with blood
I'll go no more
I am afraid to think what I have done
Look on't again I dare not
In- -firm of pur- -pose!
Give me the dag- -gers The sleep- -ing and the dead
Are but as pic- -tures 'tis the eye of child- -hood
That fears a paint- -ed dev- -il If he do bleed
I'll gild the faces of the grooms with- -al
For it must seem their guilt Ex- -it Knock- -ing with- -in
Whence is that knock- -ing?
How is't with me when ev- -ery noise ap- -pals me?
What hands are here? Ha they pluck out mine eye- -s!
Will all great Nep- -tune's ocean wash this blood
Clean from my hand? No this my hand will rather
The mul- -ti- -tudi- -nous seas in- -car- -na- -dine
Mak- -ing the green one red
Re- -en- -ter La- -dy Mac- -beth
My hands are of your col- -or but I shame
To wear a heart so white [Knock- -ing with- -in.] I hear knock- -ing
At the south en- -try Re- -tire we to our cham- -ber
A lit- -tle wa- -ter clears us of this deed
How easy is it then! Your con- -stan- -cy
Hath left you unat- -tend- -ed [Knock- -ing with- -in.] Hark more
Get on your night- -gown lest oc- -ca- -sion call us
And show us to be watch- -ers Be not lost
So poor- -ly in your thoughts
To know my deed 'twere best not know my- -self
Knock- -ing with- -in
Wake Dun- -can with thy knock- -ing! I would thou could- -st!
Exe- -unt
Here's a knock- -ing in- -deed! If a man were porter of Hell
Knock knock knock! Who's there i' the name of Belze- -bub?
a farmer that hanged him- -self on th' ex- -pec- -ta- -tion of plen- -ty
in time! Have nap- -kins enow about you here you'll sweat fort
[Knock- -ing with- -in.] Knock knock! Who's there in th' oth- -er
dev- -il's name? Faith here's an equiv- -o- -ca- -tor that could swear
both the scales against ei- -ther scale who com- -mit- -ted trea- -son
enough for God's sake yet could not equiv- -o- -cate to heav- -en O
come in equiv- -o- -ca- -tor [Knock- -ing with- -in.] Knock knock knock!
Who's there? Faith here's an Eng- -lish tai- -lor come hith- -er for
steal- -ing out of a French hose Come in tai- -lor here you may
roast your goose [Knock- -ing with- -in.] Knock knock! Nev- -er at
qui- -et! What are you? But this place is too cold for hell
dev- -il- -- -porter it no fur- -ther I had thought to have let in some
all pro- -fes- -sions that go the prim- -rose way to the ev- -er- -last- -ing
bon- -fire [Knock- -ing with- -in.] Anon anon! I pray you re- -mem- -ber
porter
Opens the gate
En- -ter Mac- -duff and Lennox
Was it so late friend ere you went to bed
That you do lie so late?
Faith sir we were carous- -ing till the sec- -ond cock and
drink sir is a great pro- -vok- -er of three things
What three things does drink es- -pe- -cial- -ly pro- -voke?
Mar- -ry sir nose- -- -paint- -ing sleep and urine Lech- -ery
it pro- -vokes and un- -pro- -vokes it pro- -vokes the de- -sire but it
away the per- -for- -mance There- -fore much drink may be said to be
equiv- -o- -ca- -tor with lech- -ery it makes him and it mars him it
him on and it takes him off it per- -suades him and
him makes him stand to and not stand to in con- -clu- -sion
equiv- -o- -cates him in a sleep and giv- -ing him the lie leaves
I be- -lieve drink gave thee the lie last night
That it did sir i' the very throat on me but
him for his lie and I think be- -ing too strong for him
he took up my legs some- -time yet I made shift to cast him
Is thy mas- -ter stir- -ring?
En- -ter Mac- -beth
Our knock- -ing has awaked him here he comes
Good mor- -row no- -ble sir
mor- -row both
Is the King stir- -ring wor- -thy Thane?
Not yet
He did com- -mand me to call time- -ly on him
I have al- -most slip- -p'd the hour
I'll bring you to him
I know this is a joy- -ful trou- -ble to you
But yet 'tis one
The la- -bor we de- -light in physics pain
This is the door
MAC- -DUFF I'll make so bold to call
For 'tis my lim- -it- -ed ser- -vice Ex- -it
Goes the King hence to- -day?
He does he did ap- -point so
The night has been un- -ruly Where we lay
Our chim- -neys were blown down and as they say
Lament- -ings heard i' the air strange screams of death
And proph- -esy- -ing with ac- -cents ter- -ri- -ble
Of dire com- -bus- -tion and con- -fused events
New hatch'd to the woe- -ful time The ob- -scure bird
Clam- -or'd the live- -long night Some say the earth
Was fever- -ous and did shake
'T- -was a rough fight
My young re- -mem- -brance can- -not par- -al- -lel
A fel- -low to it
Re- -en- -ter Mac- -duff
O hor- -ror hor- -ror hor- -ror! Tongue nor heart
Can- -not con- -ceive nor name thee
LENNOX What's the mat- -ter?
Con- -fu- -sion now hath made his mas- -ter- -piece
Most sac- -ri- -le- -gious mur- -ther hath broke ope
The Lord's anoint- -ed tem- -ple and stole thence
The life o' the build- -ing
What is't you say? the life?
Mean you his Majesty?
Ap- -proach the cham- -ber and de- -stroy your sight
With a new Gor- -gon Do not bid me speak
See and then speak your- -selves
Exe- -unt Mac- -beth and Lennox
Awake awake!
Ring the alarum bell Mur- -ther and trea- -son!
Ban- -quo and Don- -al- -bain! Mal- -colm awake!
Shake off this downy sleep death's coun- -ter- -feit
And look on death it- -self! Up up and see
The great doom's im- -age! Mal- -colm! Ban- -quo!
As from your graves rise up and walk like sprites
To coun- -te- -nance this hor- -ror! Ring the bell Bell rings
En- -ter La- -dy Mac- -beth
What's the busi- -ness
That such a hideous trum- -pet calls to par- -ley
The sleep- -ers of the house? Speak speak!
O gen- -tle la- -dy
'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak
The rep- -e- -ti- -tion in a wom- -an's ear
Would mur- -ther as it fell
En- -ter Ban- -quo
O Ban- -quo Ban- -quo!
Our roy- -al mas- -ter's mur- -ther'd
Woe alas!
What in our house?
Too cru- -el any- -where
Dear Duff I prithee con- -tra- -dict thy- -self
And say it is not so
Re- -en- -ter Mac- -beth and Lennox with Ross
Had I but died an hour be- -fore this chance
I had lived a blessed time for from this in- -stant
There's noth- -ing se- -ri- -ous in mor- -tal- -i- -ty
All is but toys renown and grace is dead
The wine of life is drawn and the mere lees
Is left this vault to brag of
En- -ter Mal- -colm and Don- -al- -bain
What is amis- -s?
You are and do not know't
The spring the head the foun- -tain of your blood
Is stopped the very source of it is stop- -p'd
Your roy- -al fa- -ther's mur- -ther'd
O by whom?
Those of his cham- -ber as it seem'd had done't
Their hands and faces were all badged with blood
So were their dag- -gers which un- -wiped we found
Up- -on their pil- -lows
They stared and were dis- -tract- -ed no man's life
Was to be trust- -ed with them
O yet I do re- -pent me of my fury
That I did kill them
Where- -fore did you so?
Who can be wise amazed tem- -per- -ate and fu- -ri- -ous
Loy- -al and neu- -tral in a mo- -men- -t? No man
The ex- -pe- -di- -tion of my vi- -o- -lent love
Out- -run the paus- -er rea- -son Here lay Dun- -can
His sil- -ver skin laced with his gold- -en blood
And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in na- -ture
For ru- -in's waste- -ful en- -trance there the mur- -ther- -ers
Steep- -'d in the col- -ors of their trade their dag- -gers
Un- -man- -ner- -ly breech'd with gore Who could re- -frain
That had a heart to love and in that heart
Courage to make 's love known?
Help me hence ho!
Look to the la- -dy
[A- -side to Don- -al- -bain.] Why do we hold our tongues
That most may claim this ar- -gu- -ment for ours?
[A- -side to Mal- -colm.] What should be spo- -ken here
our fate
Hid in an auger hole may rush and seize us?
Let's away
Our tears are not yet brew'd
[A- -side to Don- -al- -bain.] Nor our strong sor- -row
Up- -on the foot of mo- -tion
Look to the la- -dy
La- -dy Mac- -beth is car- -ried out
And when we have our naked frail- -ties hid
That suf- -fer in ex- -po- -sure let us meet
And ques- -tion this most bloody piece of work
To know it fur- -ther Fears and scru- -ples shake us
In the great hand of God I stand and thence
Against the un- -di- -vulged pre- -tense I fight
Of trea- -sonous mal- -ice
And so do I
So all
Let's briefly put on man- -ly readi- -ness
And meet i' the hall to- -geth- -er
Well con- -tent- -ed
Exe- -unt all but Mal- -colm and Don- -al- -bain
What will you do? Let's not con- -sort with them
To show an un- -felt sor- -row is an of- -fice
Which the false man does easy I'll to Eng- -land
To Ire- -land I our sep- -a- -rat- -ed for- -tune
Shall keep us both the safer Where we are
There's dag- -gers in men's smiles the near in blood
The near- -er bloody
This mur- -th- -er- -ous shaft that's shot
Hath not yet light- -ed and our safest way
Is to avoid the aim There- -fore to horse
And let us not be dain- -ty of leave- -- -tak- -ing
But shift away There's war- -rant in that theft
Which steals it- -self when there's no mer- -cy left
Exe- -unt
Three- -score and ten I can re- -mem- -ber well
With- -in the vol- -ume of which time I have seen
Hours dread- -ful and things strange but this sore night
Hath tri- -fled for- -mer know- -ings
Ah good fa- -ther
Thou seest the heav- -ens as trou- -bled with man's act
Threat- -en his bloody stage By the clock 'tis day
And yet dark night stran- -gles the trav- -el- -ing lamp
Is't night's pre- -dom- -i- -nance or the day's shame
That dark- -ness does the face of earth en- -tomb
When liv- -ing light should kiss it?
'Tis un- -nat- -u- -ral
Even like the deed that's done On Tues- -day last
A fal- -con tow- -er- -ing in her pride of place
Was by a mous- -ing owl hawk'd at and kil- -l'd
And Dun- -can's hors- -es- -a thing most strange and cer- -tain
Beau- -teous and swift the min- -ions of their race
Turn'd wild in na- -ture broke their stalls flung out
Con- -tend- -ing 'gainst obe- -di- -ence as they would make
War with mankind
'Tis said they eat each oth- -er
They did so to the amaze- -ment of mine eyes
That look'd up- -on't
En- -ter Mac- -duff
Here comes the good Mac- -duff
How goes the world sir now?
Why see you not?
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
Those that Mac- -beth hath slain
Alas the day!
What good could they pre- -tend?
They were sub- -orn'd
Mal- -colm and Don- -al- -bain the King's two sons
Are stol'n away and fled which puts up- -on them
Sus- -pi- -cion of the deed
'Gainst na- -ture stil- -l!
Thrift- -less am- -bi- -tion that wilt ravin up
Thine own life's mean- -s! Then 'tis most like
The sovereign- -ty will fall up- -on Mac- -beth
He is al- -ready named and gone to Scone
To be in- -vest- -ed
Where is Dun- -can's body?
Car- -ried to Colmekill
The sa- -cred store- -house of his pre- -de- -ces- -sors
And guardian of their bones
Will you to Scone?
No cousin I'll to Fife
Well I will thith- -er
Well may you see things well done there
Adieu
Lest our old robes sit eas- -i- -er than our new!
Farewell fa- -ther
God's beni- -son go with you and with those
That would make good of bad and friends of foes!
Exe- -unt
Thou hast it now King Caw- -dor Glamis all
As the weird wom- -en promised and I fear
Thou play'dst most foul- -ly for't yet it was said
It should not stand in thy pos- -ter- -i- -ty
But that my- -self should be the root and fa- -ther
Of many kings If there come truth from them
(As up- -on thee Mac- -beth their speech- -es shine)
Why by the ver- -i- -ties on thee made good
May they not be my or- -a- -cles as well
And set me up in hope? But hush no more
Sen- -net sounds En- -ter Mac- -beth as King La- -dy Mac- -beth
as Queen Lennox Ross Lords Ladies and At- -ten- -dants
Here's our chief guest
If he had been for- -got- -ten
It had been as a gap in our great feast
And all thing un- -be- -com- -ing
Tonight we hold a solemn sup- -per sir
And I'll re- -quest your pres- -ence
Let your High- -ness
Com- -mand up- -on me to the which my du- -ties
Are with a most in- -dis- -sol- -u- -ble tie
For- -ev- -er knit
Ride you this af- -ter- -noon?
Ay my good lord
We should have else de- -sired your good ad- -vice
Which still hath been both grave and pros- -per- -ous
In this day's coun- -cil but we'll take to- -mor- -row
Is't far you ride'!
As far my lord as will fill up the time
'Twixt this and sup- -per Go not my horse the bet- -ter
I must be- -come a bor- -row- -er of the night
For a dark hour or twain
Fail not our feast
My lord I will not
We hear our bloody cousins are be- -stow'd
In Eng- -land and in Ire- -land not con- -fess- -ing
Their cru- -el par- -ri- -cide fill- -ing their hear- -ers
With strange in- -ven- -tion But of that to- -mor- -row
When there- -with- -al we shall have cause of state
Crav- -ing us joint- -ly Hie you to horse adieu
Till you re- -turn at night Goes Fleance with you?
Ay my good lord Our time does call up- -on 's
I wish your hors- -es swift and sure of foot
And so I do com- -mend you to their backs
Farewell Ex- -it Ban- -quo
Let ev- -ery man be mas- -ter of his time
Till sev- -en at night to make so- -ci- -ety
The sweet- -er wel- -come we will keep our- -self
Till sup- -per time alone While then God be with you!
Exe- -unt all but Mac- -beth and an At- -ten- -dant
Sir- -rah a word with you At- -tend those men
Our plea- -sure?
They are my lord with- -out the palace gate
Bring them be- -fore us Ex- -it At- -ten- -dant
To be thus is noth- -ing
But to be safe- -ly thus Our fears in Ban- -quo
Stick deep and in his roy- -al- -ty of na- -ture
Reigns that which would be fear'd 'Tis much he dares
And to that daunt- -less tem- -per of his mind
He hath a wis- -dom that doth guide his val- -or
To act in safe- -ty There is none but he
Whose be- -ing I do fear and un- -der him
My ge- -nius is re- -buked as it is said
Mark Antony's was by Cae- -sar He chid the sis- -ters
When first they put the name of King up- -on me
And bade them speak to him then prophet- -- -like
They hail'd him fa- -ther to a line of kings
Up- -on my head they placed a fruit- -less crown
And put a bar- -ren scep- -tre in my gripe
Thence to be wrench'd with an un- -lin- -eal hand
No son of mine suc- -ceed- -ing If't be so
For Ban- -quo's is- -sue have I filed my mind
For them the gra- -cious Dun- -can have I mur- -ther'd
Put ran- -cors in the ves- -sel of my peace
On- -ly for them and mine eter- -nal jew- -el
Giv- -en to the com- -mon en- -e- -my of man
To make them kings the seed of Ban- -quo kings!
Rather than so come Fate in- -to the list
And cham- -pi- -on me to the ut- -ter- -ance! Who's there?
Re- -en- -ter At- -ten- -dant with two Mur- -ther- -ers
Now go to the door and stay there till we call
Ex- -it At- -ten- -dant
Was it not yes- -ter- -day we spoke to- -geth- -er?
It was so please your High- -ness
Well then now
Have you con- -sid- -er'd of my speech- -es? Know
That it was he in the times past which held you
So un- -der for- -tune which you thought had been
Our in- -no- -cent self? This I made good to you
In our last con- -fer- -ence pass'd in pro- -ba- -tion with you
How you were borne in hand how cross'd the in- -stru- -ments
Who wrought with them and all things else that might
To half a soul and to a no- -tion crazed
Say "Thus did Ban- -quo."
You made it known to us
I did so and went fur- -ther which is now
Our point of sec- -ond meet- -ing Do you find
Your pa- -tience so pre- -dom- -i- -nant in your na- -ture
That you can let this go? Are you so gospel'd
To pray for this good man and for his is- -sue
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
And beg- -gar'd yours forever?
We are men my liege
Ay in the cat- -a- -logue ye go for men
As hounds and grey- -hounds mon- -grels spaniels curs
Shoughs wa- -ter- -rugs and demi- -- -wolves are clept
All by the name of dogs The val- -ued file
Dis- -tin- -guish- -es the swift the slow the sub- -tle
The house- -keep- -er the hunter ev- -ery one
Ac- -cord- -ing to the gift which boun- -teous na- -ture
Hath in him closed where- -by he does re- -ceive
Par- -tic- -u- -lar ad- -di- -tion from the bill
That writes them all alike and so of men
Now if you have a sta- -tion in the file
Not i' the worst rank of man- -hood say it
And I will put that busi- -ness in your bo- -soms
Whose ex- -e- -cu- -tion takes your en- -e- -my off
Grap- -ples you to the heart and love of us
Who wear our health but sick- -ly in his life
Which in his death were per- -fect
I am one my liege
Whom the vile blows and buf- -fets of the world
Have so in- -censed that I am reck- -less what
I do to spite the world
And I an- -oth- -er
So weary with dis- -as- -ters tug- -g'd with for- -tune
That I would set my life on any chance
To mend it or be rid on't
Both of you
Know Ban- -quo was your en- -e- -my
True my lord
So is he mine and in such bloody dis- -tance
That ev- -ery minute of his be- -ing thrusts
Against my near'st of life and though I could
With barefaced pow- -er sweep him from my sight
And bid my will avouch it yet I must not
For cer- -tain friends that are both his and mine
Whose loves I may not drop but wail his fall
Who I my- -self struck down And thence it is
That I to your as- -sis- -tance do make love
Mask- -ing the busi- -ness from the com- -mon eye
For sundry weighty rea- -sons
We shall my lord
Per- -form what you com- -mand us
Though our lives
Your spir- -its shine through you With- -in this hour at
I will ad- -vise you where to plant your- -selves
Ac- -quaint you with the per- -fect spy o' the time
The mo- -ment on't fort must be done tonight
And some- -thing from the palace (al- -ways thought
That I re- -quire a clear- -ness) and with him
To leave no rubs nor botch- -es in the work
Fleance his son that keeps him com- -pa- -ny
Whose ab- -sence is no less ma- -te- -ri- -al to me
Than is his fa- -ther's must em- -brace the fate
Of that dark hour Re- -solve your- -selves apart
I'll come to you anon
We are re- -solved my lord
I'll call up- -on you straight Abide with- -in
Exe- -unt Mur- -ther- -ers
It is con- -clud- -ed Ban- -quo thy soul's flight
If it find heav- -en must find it out tonight Ex- -it
Is Ban- -quo gone from court?
Ay madam but re- -turns again tonight
Say to the King I would at- -tend his leisure
For a few words
Madam I will Ex- -it
Nought's had al- -l's spent
Where our de- -sire is got with- -out con- -tent
'Tis safer to be that which we de- -stroy
Than by de- -struc- -tion dwell in doubt- -ful joy
En- -ter Mac- -beth
How now my lord? Why do you keep alone
Of sor- -ri- -est fan- -cies your com- -pan- -ions mak- -ing
Us- -ing those thoughts which should in- -deed have died
With them they think on? Things with- -out all rem- -e- -dy
Should be with- -out re- -gard What's done is done
We have scotch'd the snake not kil- -l'd it
She'll close and be her- -self whilst our poor mal- -ice
Re- -mains in dan- -ger of her for- -mer tooth
But let the frame of things dis- -joint both the worlds suf- -fer
Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
In the af- -flic- -tion of these ter- -ri- -ble dreams
That shake us night- -ly Bet- -ter be with the dead
Whom we to gain our peace have sent to peace
Than on the tor- -ture of the mind to lie
In rest- -less ec- -sta- -sy Dun- -can is in his grave
Af- -ter life's fit- -ful fever he sleeps well
Trea- -son has done his worst nor steel nor poi- -son
Mal- -ice do- -mes- -tic for- -eign levy noth- -ing
Can touch him fur- -ther
Come on
Gen- -tle my lord sleek o'er your rugged looks
Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight
So shall I love and so I pray be you
Let your re- -mem- -brance ap- -ply to Ban- -quo
Present him em- -i- -nence both with eye and tongue
Un- -safe the while that we
Must lave our hon- -ors in these flat- -ter- -ing streams
And make our faces vizards to our hearts
Dis- -guis- -ing what they are
You must leave this
O full of scor- -pi- -ons is my mind dear wife!
Thou know'st that Ban- -quo and his Fleance lives
But in them na- -ture's copy- -'s not eterne
There's com- -fort yet they are as- -sail- -able
Then be thou jo- -cund Ere the bat hath flown
His clois- -ter'd flight ere to black Hecate's sum- -mons
The shard- -borne bee- -tle with his drowsy hums
Hath rung night's yawn- -ing peal there shall be done
A deed of dread- -ful note
What's to be done?
Be in- -no- -cent of the knowl- -edge dear- -est chuck
Till thou ap- -plaud the deed Come seel- -ing night
Scarf up the ten- -der eye of piti- -ful day
And with thy bloody and in- -vis- -i- -ble hand
Can- -cel and tear to pieces that great bond
Which keeps me pale! Light thick- -ens and the crow
Makes wing to the rooky wood
Good things of day be- -gin to droop and drowse
Whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse
Thou mar- -vel'st at my words but hold thee still
Things bad be- -gun make strong them- -selves by ill
So prithee go with me Exe- -unt
But who did bid thee join with us?
Mac- -beth
He needs not our mis- -trust since he de- -liv- -ers
Our of- -fices and what we have to do
To the di- -rec- -tion just
Then stand with us
The west yet glim- -mers with some streaks of day
Now spurs the lat- -ed trav- -el- -er apace
To gain the time- -ly inn and near ap- -proach- -es
The sub- -ject of our watch
Hark! I hear hors- -es
[With- -in.] Give us a light there ho!
Then 'tis he the rest
That are with- -in the note of ex- -pec- -ta- -tion
Al- -ready are i' the court
His hors- -es go about
Al- -most a mile but he does usu- -al- -ly
So all men do from hence to the palace gate
Make it their walk
A light a light!
En- -ter Ban- -quo and Fleance with a torch
'Tis he
Stand to't
It will be rain tonight
Let it come down
They set up- -on Ban- -quo
O treach- -ery! Fly good Fleance fly fly fly!
Thou mayst re- -venge O slave! Dies Fleance es- -capes
Who did strike out the light?
Wast not the way?
There's but one down the son is fled
We have lost
Best half of our af- -fair
Well let's away and say how much is done
Exe- -unt
You know your own de- -grees sit down At first
And last the hearty wel- -come
Thanks to your Majesty
Our- -self will min- -gle with so- -ci- -ety
And play the hum- -ble host
Our host- -ess keeps her state but in best time
We will re- -quire her wel- -come
Pro- -nounce it for me sir to all our friends
For my heart speaks they are wel- -come
En- -ter first Mur- -ther- -er to the door
See they en- -counter thee with their heart- -s' thanks
Both sides are even here I'll sit i' the midst
Be large in mirth anon we'll drink a mea- -sure
The ta- -ble round [Ap- -proach- -es the door.] There's blood up- -on
face
'Tis Ban- -quo's then
'Tis bet- -ter thee with- -out than he with- -in
Is he dis- -patch'd?
My lord his throat is cut that I did for him
Thou art the best o' the cut- -throat- -s! Yet he's good
That did the like for Fleance If thou didst it
Thou art the non- -pareil
Most roy- -al sir
Fleance is 's- -caped
[A- -side.] Then comes my fit again I had else been
Whole as the mar- -ble found- -ed as the rock
As broad and gen- -er- -al as the cas- -ing air
But now I am cab- -in'd crib- -b'd con- -fin'd bound in
To saucy doubts and fears But Ban- -quo's safe?
Ay my good lord Safe in a ditch he bides
With twen- -ty trenched gash- -es on his head
The least a death to na- -ture
Thanks for that
There the grown ser- -pent lies the worm that's fled
Hath na- -ture that in time will ven- -om breed
No teeth for the present Get thee gone To- -mor- -row
We'll hear our- -selves again
Ex- -it Mur- -ther- -er
My roy- -al lord
You do not give the cheer The feast is sold
That is not of- -ten vouch'd while 'tis amak- -ing
'Tis giv- -en with wel- -come To feed were best at home
From thence the sauce to meat is cer- -e- -mo- -ny
Meet- -ing were bare with- -out it
Sweet re- -mem- -brancer!
Now good di- -ges- -tion wait on ap- -petite
And health on both!
May't please your High- -ness sit
The Ghost of Ban- -quo en- -ters and sits in Mac- -beth's place
Here had we now our coun- -try's hon- -or roof'd
Were the graced per- -son of our Ban- -quo present
Who may I rather chal- -lenge for un- -kind- -ness
Than pity for mis- -chance!
His ab- -sence sir
Lays blame up- -on his prom- -ise Please't your High- -ness
To grace us with your roy- -al com- -pa- -ny?
The table's full
Here is a place re- -served sir
Where?
Here my good lord What is't that moves your High- -ness?
Which of you have done this?
What my good lord?
Thou canst not say I did it nev- -er shake
Thy gory locks at me
Gen- -tle- -men rise his High- -ness is well
Sit wor- -thy friends my lord is of- -ten thus
And hath been from his youth Pray you keep seat
The fit is mo- -men- -tary up- -on a thought
He will again be well If much you note him
You shall of- -fend him and ex- -tend his pas- -sion
Feed and re- -gard him not- -Are you a man?
Ay and a bold one that dare look on that
Which might ap- -pal the dev- -il
O prop- -er stuff!
This is the very paint- -ing of your fear
This is the air- -- -drawn dag- -ger which you said
Led you to Dun- -can O these flaws and starts
Im- -pos- -tors to true fear would well be- -come
A wom- -an's sto- -ry at a win- -ter's fire
Au- -tho- -rized by her grandam Shame it- -self!
Why do you make such faces? When al- -l's done
You look but on a stool
Prithee see there! Be- -hold! Look! Lo! How say you?
Why what care I? If thou canst nod speak too
If char- -nel hous- -es and our graves must send
Those that we bury back our mon- -u- -ments
Shall be the maws of kites Ex- -it Ghost
What quite un- -man- -n'd in fol- -ly?
If I stand here I saw him
Fie for shame!
Blood hath been shed ere now i' the old- -en time
Ere hu- -mane statute purged the gen- -tle weal
Ay and since too mur- -thers have been per- -for- -m'd
Too ter- -ri- -ble for the ear The time has been
That when the brains were out the man would die
And there an end but now they rise again
With twen- -ty mor- -tal mur- -thers on their crowns
And push us from our stools This is more strange
Than such a mur- -ther is
My wor- -thy lord
Your no- -ble friends do lack you
I do for- -get
Do not muse at me my most wor- -thy friends
I have a strange in- -fir- -mi- -ty which is noth- -ing
To those that know me Come love and health to all
Then I'll sit down Give me some wine fill full
I drink to the gen- -er- -al joy o' the whole ta- -ble
And to our dear friend Ban- -quo whom we miss
Would he were here! To all and him we thirst
And all to all
Our du- -ties and the pledge
Re- -en- -ter Ghost
Avaunt and quit my sight! Let the earth hide thee!
Thy bones are mar- -row- -less thy blood is cold
Thou hast no spec- -u- -la- -tion in those eyes
Which thou dost glare with
Think of this good peers
But as a thing of cus- -tom 'Tis no oth- -er
On- -ly it spoils the plea- -sure of the time
What man dare I dare
Ap- -proach thou like the rugged Rus- -sian bear
The ar- -m'd rhi- -noc- -er- -os or the Hyr- -can tiger
Take any shape but that and my firm nerves
Shall nev- -er trem- -ble Or be alive again
And dare me to the desert with thy sword
If trem- -bling I in- -hab- -it then protest me
The ba- -by of a girl Hence hor- -ri- -ble shad- -ow!
Un- -re- -al mock- -ery hence! Ex- -it Ghost
Why so be- -ing gone
I am a man again Pray you sit still
You have dis- -placed the mirth broke the good
With most ad- -mired dis- -or- -der
Can such things be
And over- -come us like a sum- -mer's cloud
With- -out our spe- -cial won- -der? You make me strange
Even to the dis- -po- -si- -tion that I owe
When now I think you can be- -hold such sights
And keep the nat- -u- -ral ru- -by of your cheeks
When mine is blanch'd with fear
What sights my lord?
I pray you speak not he grows worse and worse
Ques- -tion en- -rages him At once good night
Stand not up- -on the or- -der of your go- -ing
But go at once
Good night and bet- -ter health
At- -tend his Majesty!
A kind good night to al- -l!
Exe- -unt all but Mac- -beth and La- -dy Mac- -beth
will have blood they say blood will have blood
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak
Au- -gures and un- -der- -stood re- -la- -tions have
By mag- -got pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
The se- -cret'st man of blood What is the night?
Al- -most at odds with morn- -ing which is which
How say'st thou that Mac- -duff de- -nies his per- -son
At our great bid- -ding?
Did you send to him sir?
I hear it by the way but I will send
There's not a one of them but in his house
I keep a ser- -vant feed I will to- -mor- -row
And be- -times I will to the weird sis- -ters
More shall they speak for now I am bent to know
By the worst means the worst For mine own good
All caus- -es shall give way I am in blood
Step- -p'd in so far that should I wade no more
Re- -turn- -ing were as te- -dious as go o'er
Strange things I have in head that will to hand
Which must be act- -ed ere they may be scan- -n'd
You lack the sea- -son of all na- -tures sleep
Come we'll to sleep My strange and self- -- -abuse
Is the ini- -ti- -ate fear that wants hard use
We are yet but young in deed Exe- -unt
Why how now Hecate? You look anger- -ly
Have I not rea- -son bel- -dams as you are
Saucy and over- -bold? How did you dare
To trade and traf- -fic with Mac- -beth
In rid- -dles and af- -fairs of death
And I the mis- -tress of your charms
The close con- -triv- -er of all harms
Was nev- -er cal- -l'd to bear my part
Or show the glo- -ry of our art?
And which is worse all you have done
Hath been but for a way- -ward son
Spite- -ful and wrath- -ful who as oth- -ers do
Loves for his own ends not for you
But make amends now Get you gone
And at the pit of Acheron
Meet me i' the morn- -ing Thith- -er he
Will come to know his des- -tiny
Your ves- -sels and your spells pro- -vide
Your charms and ev- -ery- -thing be- -side
I am for the air this night I'll spend
Un- -to a dis- -mal and a fa- -tal end
Great busi- -ness must be wrought ere noon
Up- -on the cor- -ner of the moon
There hangs a va- -porous drop pro- -found
I'll catch it ere it come to ground
And that dis- -til- -l'd by mag- -ic sleights
Shall raise such ar- -ti- -fi- -cial sprites
As by the strength of their il- -lu- -sion
Shall draw him on to his con- -fu- -sion
He shall spurn fate scorn death and bear
His hopes 'bove wis- -dom grace and fear
And you all know se- -cu- -ri- -ty
Is mor- -tal- -s' chiefest en- -e- -my
Mu- -sic and a song with- -in
"Come away come away."
Hark! I am cal- -l'd my lit- -tle spir- -it see
Sits in a fog- -gy cloud and stays for me Ex- -it
Come let's make haste she'll soon be back again
Exe- -unt
My for- -mer speech- -es have but hit your thoughts
Which can in- -ter- -pret far- -ther on- -ly I say
Thing's have been strange- -ly borne The gra- -cious Dun- -can
Was pitied of Mac- -beth mar- -ry he was dead
And the right valiant Ban- -quo walk'd too late
Whom you may say if't please you Fleance kil- -l'd
For Fleance fled Men must not walk too late
Who can- -not want the thought how mon- -strous
It was for Mal- -colm and for Don- -al- -bain
To kill their gra- -cious fa- -ther? Damned fac- -t!
How it did grieve Mac- -beth! Did he not straight
In pi- -ous rage the two delin- -quents tear
That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
Was not that nobly done? Ay and wise- -ly too
For 't- -would have anger'd any heart alive
To hear the men deny't So that I say
He has borne all things well and I do think
That had he Dun- -can's sons un- -der his key
As an't please heav- -en he shall not they should find
What 'twere to kill a fa- -ther so should Fleance
But peace! For from broad words and 'cause he fail'd
His pres- -ence at the tyran- -t's feast I hear
Mac- -duff lives in dis- -grace Sir can you tell
Where he be- -stows him- -self?
The son of Dun- -can
From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth
Lives in the Eng- -lish court and is re- -ceived
Of the most pi- -ous Ed- -ward with such grace
That the malev- -o- -lence of for- -tune noth- -ing
Takes from his high re- -spect Thith- -er Mac- -duff
Is gone to pray the holy King up- -on his aid
To wake Northum- -ber- -land and war- -like Si- -ward
That by the help of these with Him above
To rat- -i- -fy the work we may again
Give to our ta- -bles meat sleep to our nights
Free from our feasts and ban- -quets bloody knives
Do faith- -ful homage and re- -ceive free hon- -ors
All which we pine for now And this re- -port
Hath so ex- -as- -per- -ate the King that he
Pre- -pares for some at- -tempt of war
Sent he to Mac- -duf- -f?
He did and with an ab- -so- -lute "Sir not I,"
The cloudy mes- -sen- -ger turns me his back
And hums as who should say "Y- -ou'll rue the time
That clogs me with this an- -swer."
And that well might
Ad- -vise him to a cau- -tion to hold what dis- -tance
His wis- -dom can pro- -vide Some holy an- -gel
Fly to the court of Eng- -land and un- -fold
His mes- -sage ere he come that a swift bless- -ing
May soon re- -turn to this our suf- -fer- -ing coun- -try
Un- -der a hand ac- -cursed!
I'll send my prayers with him
Exe- -unt
Thrice the brind- -ed cat hath mew'd
Thrice and once the hedge- -pig whined
Harpi- -er cries "'Tis time 'tis time."
Round about the caul- -dron go
In the poi- -son'd en- -trails throw
Toad that un- -der cold stone
Days and nights has thir- -ty- -one
Swel- -ter'd ven- -om sleep- -ing got
Boil thou first i' the charmed pot
Dou- -ble dou- -ble toil and trou- -ble
Fire burn and caul- -dron bub- -ble
Fil- -let of a fen- -ny snake
In the caul- -dron boil and bake
Eye of newt and toe of frog
Wool of bat and tongue of dog
Adder's fork and blind- -- -wor- -m's sting
Lizard's leg and howlet's wing
For a charm of pow- -er- -ful trou- -ble
Like a hel- -l- -broth boil and bub- -ble
Dou- -ble dou- -ble toil and trou- -ble
Fire burn and caul- -dron bub- -ble
Scale of drag- -on tooth of wolf
Witch's mum- -my maw and gulf
Of the rav- -in'd salt- -sea shark
Root of hem- -lock dig- -g'd i' the dark
Liv- -er of blas- -phem- -ing Jew
Gall of goat and slips of yew
Sliv- -er'd in the moon's eclipse
Nose of Turk and Tar- -tar's lips
Fin- -ger of birth- -s- -tran- -gled babe
Ditch- -de- -liv- -er'd by a drab
Make the gru- -el thick and slab
Add there- -to a tiger's chaw- -dron
For the in- -gre- -di- -ents of our caw- -dron
Dou- -ble dou- -ble toil and trou- -ble
Fire burn and caul- -dron bub- -ble
Cool it with a ba- -boon's blood
Then the charm is firm and good
En- -ter Hecate to the oth- -er three Witch- -es
O well done! I com- -mend your pains
And ev- -ery- -one shall share i' the gains
And now about the caul- -dron sing
Like elves and fairies in a ring
En- -chant- -ing all that you put in
Mu- -sic and a song "Black spir- -it- -s."
Hecate re- -tires
By the prick- -ing of my thumbs
Some- -thing wicked this way comes
Open locks
Who- -ev- -er knock- -s!
En- -ter Mac- -beth
How now you se- -cret black and mid- -night hags?
What is't you do?
A deed with- -out a name
I con- -jure you by that which you pro- -fess
(Howeer you come to know it) an- -swer me
Though you un- -tie the winds and let them fight
Against the church- -es though the yesty waves
Con- -found and swal- -low nav- -i- -ga- -tion up
Though blad- -ed corn be lodged and trees blown down
Though cas- -tles top- -ple on their warder- -s' heads
Though palaces and pyra- -mids do slope
Their heads to their foun- -da- -tions though the trea- -sure
Of na- -ture's ger- -maines tum- -ble all to- -geth- -er
Even till de- -struc- -tion sick- -en an- -swer me
To what I ask you
Speak
De- -mand
We'll an- -swer
Say if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths
Or from our mas- -ter- -s'?
Call 'em let me see 'em
Pour in sow's blood that hath eat- -en
Her nine far- -row grease that's sweat- -en
From the mur- -ther- -er's gib- -bet throw
In- -to the flame
Come high or low
Thy- -self and of- -fice deft- -ly show!
Thun- -der First Ap- -pari- -tion an armed Head
Tell me thou un- -known pow- -er
He knows thy thought
Hear his speech but say thou nought
Mac- -beth! Mac- -beth! Mac- -beth! Be- -ware Mac- -duff
Be- -ware the Thane of Fife Dis- -miss me Enough
De- -scends
Whate'er thou art for thy good cau- -tion thanks
Thou hast harp'd my fear aright But one word more
He will not be com- -mand- -ed Here's an- -oth- -er
More po- -tent than the first
Thun- -der Sec- -ond Ap- -pari- -tion a bloody Child
Mac- -beth! Mac- -beth! Mac- -beth!
Had I three ears I'd hear thee
Be bloody bold and res- -o- -lute laugh to
The pow- -er of man for none of wom- -an born
Shall harm Mac- -beth De- -scends
Then live Mac- -duff What need I fear of thee?
But yet I'll make as- -sur- -ance dou- -ble sure
And take a bond of fate thou shalt not live
That I may tell pale- -- -heart- -ed fear it lies
And sleep in spite of thun- -der
Thun- -der Third Ap- -pari- -tion a Child crowned
with a tree in his hand
What is this
That ris- -es like the is- -sue of a king
And wears up- -on his ba- -by brow the round
And top of sovereign- -ty?
Lis- -ten but speak not to't
Be li- -on- -met- -tled proud and take no care
Who chafes who frets or where con- -spir- -ers are
Mac- -beth shall nev- -er van- -quish'd be un- -til
Great Bir- -nam Wood to high Dun- -si- -nane Hill
Shall come against him De- -scends
That will nev- -er be
Who can im- -press the for- -est bid the tree
Un- -fix his earth- -- -bound root? Sweet bode- -ments good!
Re- -bel- -lion's head rise nev- -er till the Wood
Of Bir- -nam rise and our high- -- -- -placed Mac- -beth
Shall live the lease of na- -ture pay his breath
To time and mor- -tal cus- -tom Yet my heart
Throbs to know one thing tell me if your art
Can tell so much shall Ban- -quo's is- -sue ev- -er
Reign in this king- -dom?
Seek to know no more
I will be sat- -is- -fied! De- -ny me this
And an eter- -nal curse fall on you! Let me know
Why sinks that caul- -dron and what noise is this?
Haut- -boys
Show!
Show!
WITCH Show!
Show his eyes and grieve his heart
Come like shad- -ows so de- -part!
A show of eight Kings the last with a glass in his hand
Ban- -quo's Ghost fol- -low- -ing
Thou are too like the spir- -it of Ban- -quo Down!
Thy crown does sear mine eye- -balls And thy hair
Thou oth- -er gold- -bound brow is like the first
A third is like the for- -mer Filthy hags!
Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start eye- -s!
What will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
An- -oth- -er yet! A sev- -en- -th! I'll see no more!
And yet the eighth ap- -pears who bears a glass
Which shows me many more and some I see
That twofold balls and tre- -ble scep- -tres car- -ry
Hor- -ri- -ble sight! Now I see 'tis true
For the blood- -- -bolter'd Ban- -quo smiles up- -on me
And points at them for his What is this so?
Ay sir all this is so But why
Stands Mac- -beth thus amazed- -ly?
Come,- -sis- -ters cheer we up his sprites
And show the best of our de- -lights
I'll charm the air to give a sound
While you per- -form your an- -tic round
That this great King may kind- -ly say
Our du- -ties did his wel- -come pay
Mu- -sic The Witch- -es dance and
then van- -ish with Hecate
are they? Gone? Let this per- -ni- -cious hour
Stand ay ac- -cursed in the cal- -en- -dar!
Come in with- -out there!
En- -ter Lennox
What's your Grace's will?
Saw you the weird sis- -ter- -s?
No my lord
Came they not by you?
No in- -deed my lord
In- -fect- -ed be the 'air where- -on they ride
And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
The gal- -lop- -ing of horse Who wast came by?
'Tis two or three my lord that bring you word
Mac- -duff is fled to Eng- -land
Fled to Eng- -land?
Ay my good lord
[A- -side.] Time thou an- -tic- -i- -pat- -est my dread ex- -ploits
The flighty pur- -pose nev- -er is o'er- -took
Un- -less the deed go with it From this mo- -ment
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
The firstlings of my hand And even now
To crown my thoughts with acts be it thought and done
The cas- -tle of Mac- -duff I will sur- -prise
Seize up- -on Fife give to the edge o' the sword
His wife his babes and all un- -for- -tu- -nate souls
That trace him in his line No boast- -ing like a fool
This deed I'll do be- -fore this pur- -pose cool
But no more sight- -s! Where are these gen- -tle- -men?
Come bring me where they are Exe- -unt
What had he done to make him fly the land?
You must have pa- -tience madam
He had none
His flight was mad- -ness When our ac- -tions do not
Our fears do make us traitors
You know not
Whether it was his wis- -dom or his fear
Wis- -dom? To leave his wife to leave his babes
His man- -sion and his ti- -tles in a place
From whence him- -self does fly? He loves us not
He wants the nat- -u- -ral touch for the poor wren
The most diminu- -tive of birds will fight
Her young ones in her nest against the owl
All is the fear and noth- -ing is the love
As lit- -tle is the wis- -dom where the flight
So runs against all rea- -son
My dear- -est coz
I pray you school your- -self But for your hus- -band
He is no- -ble wise Ju- -di- -cious and best knows
The fits o' the sea- -son I dare not speak much fur- -ther
But cru- -el are the times when we are traitors
And do not know our- -selves when we hold ru- -mor
From what we fear yet know not what we fear
But float up- -on a wild and vi- -o- -lent sea
Each way and move I take my leave of you
Shall not be long but I'll be here again
Things at the worst will cease or else climb up- -ward
To what they were be- -fore My pret- -ty cousin
Bless- -ing up- -on you!
Fa- -ther'd he is and yet he's fa- -ther- -less
I am so much a fool should I stay longer
It would be my dis- -grace and your dis- -com- -fort
I take my leave at once Ex- -it
Sir- -rah your fa- -ther's dead
And what will you do now? How will you live?
As birds do Moth- -er
What with worms and flies?
With what I get I mean and so do they
Poor bird! Thou'ldst nev- -er fear the net nor lime
The pit- -fall nor the gin
Why should I Moth- -er? Poor birds they are not set for
My fa- -ther is not dead for all your say- -ing
Yes he is dead How wilt thou do for fa- -ther?
Nay how will you do for a hus- -band?
Why I can buy me twen- -ty at any mar- -ket
Then you'll buy 'em to sell again
Thou speak'st with all thy wit and yet i'
With wit enough for thee
Was my fa- -ther a traitor Moth- -er?
Ay that he was
What is a traitor?
Why one that swears and lies
And be all traitors that do so?
Ev- -ery- -one that does so is a traitor and must be
hanged
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
Ev- -ery- -one
Who must hang them?
Why the hon- -est men
Then the liars and swear- -ers are fools for there are liars
swear- -ers enow to beat the hon- -est men and hang up them
Now God help thee poor mon- -key! But how wilt
for a fa- -ther?
If he were dead you'ld weep for him if you would not it
were a good sign that I should quick- -ly have a new fa- -ther
Poor prat- -tler how thou talk'st!
En- -ter a Mes- -sen- -ger
Bless you fair dame! I am not to you known
Though in your state of hon- -or I am per- -fect
I doubt some dan- -ger does ap- -proach you near- -ly
If you will take a home- -ly man's ad- -vice
Be not found here hence with your lit- -tle ones
To fright you thus me- -thinks I am too sav- -age
To do worse to you were fell cru- -el- -ty
Which is too nigh your per- -son Heav- -en pre- -serve you!
I dare abide no longer Ex- -it
Whith- -er should I fly?
I have done no harm But I re- -mem- -ber now
I am in this earth- -ly world where to do harm
Is of- -ten laud- -able to do good some- -time
Ac- -count- -ed dan- -ger- -ous fol- -ly Why then alas
Do I put up that wom- -an- -ly de- -fense
To say I have done no harm What are these faces?
En- -ter Mur- -ther- -ers
Where is your hus- -band?
I hope in no place so un- -sanc- -ti- -fied
Where such as thou mayst find him
He's a traitor
Thou li- -est thou shag- -ear'd vil- -lain!
What you egg!
Stabs him
Young fry of treach- -ery!
He has kil- -l'd me Moth- -er
Run away I pray you! Dies
Ex- -it La- -dy Mac- -duff cry- -ing "Mur- -ther!"
Exe- -unt Mur- -ther- -ers fol- -low- -ing her
Let us seek out some des- -o- -late shade and there
Weep our sad bo- -soms emp- -ty
Let us rather
Hold fast the mor- -tal sword and like good men
Be- -stride our down- -fal- -l'n birth- -dom Each new morn
New wid- -ows howl new or- -phans cry new sor- -rows
Strike heav- -en on the face that it re- -sounds
As if it felt with Scot- -land and yel- -l'd out
Like syl- -la- -ble of do- -lor
What I be- -lieve I'll wall
What know be- -lieve and what I can re- -dress
As I shall find the time to friend I will
What you have spoke it may be so per- -chance
This tyrant whose sole name blis- -ters our tongues
Was once thought hon- -est You have loved him well
He hath not touch'd you yet I am young but some- -thing
You may de- -serve of him through me and wis- -dom
To of- -fer up a weak poor in- -no- -cent lamb
To ap- -pease an an- -gry god
I am not treach- -er- -ous
But Mac- -beth is
A good and vir- -tu- -ous na- -ture may re- -coil
In an im- -pe- -ri- -al charge But I shall crave your par- -don
That which you are my thoughts can- -not trans- -pose
An- -gels are bright still though the bright- -est fell
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace
Yet grace must still look so
I have lost my hopes
Per- -chance even there where I did find my doubts
Why in that raw- -ness left you wife and child
Those pre- -cious mo- -tives those strong knots of love
With- -out leave- -- -tak- -ing? I pray you
Let not my jeal- -ousies be your dis- -hon- -ors
But mine own safeties You may be right- -ly just
What- -ev- -er I shall think
Bleed bleed poor coun- -try!
Great tyran- -ny lay thou thy ba- -sis sure
For good- -ness dare not check thee Wear thou thy wrongs
The ti- -tle is af- -feer'd Fare thee well lord
I would not be the vil- -lain that thou think'st
For the whole space that's in the tyran- -t's grasp
And the rich East to boot
Be not of- -fend- -ed
I speak not as in ab- -so- -lute fear of you
I think our coun- -try sinks be- -neath the yoke
It weeps it bleeds and each new day a gash
Is added to her wounds I think with- -al
There would be hands up- -lift- -ed in my right
And here from gra- -cious Eng- -land have I of- -fer
Of good- -ly thou- -sands But for all this
When I shall tread up- -on the tyran- -t's head
Or wear it on my sword yet my poor coun- -try
Shall have more vices than it had be- -fore
More suf- -fer and more sundry ways than ev- -er
By him that shall suc- -ceed
What should he be?
It is my- -self I mean in whom I know
All the par- -tic- -u- -lars of vice so graft- -ed
That when they shall be open'd black Mac- -beth
Will seem as pure as snow and the poor state
Es- -teem him as a lamb be- -ing com- -pared
With my con- -fine- -less harms
Not in the le- -gions
Of hor- -rid hell can come a dev- -il more damn'd
In evils to top Mac- -beth
I grant him bloody
Lux- -u- -ri- -ous avari- -cious false de- -ceit- -ful
Sud- -den ma- -li- -cious smack- -ing of ev- -ery sin
That has a name But there's no bot- -tom none
In my volup- -tuous- -ness Your wives your daugh- -ters
Your ma- -trons and your maids could not fill up
The ces- -tern of my lust and my de- -sire
All con- -ti- -nent im- -ped- -i- -ments would o'er- -bear
That did op- -pose my will Bet- -ter Mac- -beth
Than such an one to reign
Bound- -less in- -tem- -per- -ance
In na- -ture is a tyran- -ny it hath been
The un- -time- -ly emp- -ty- -ing of the hap- -py throne
And fall of many kings But fear not yet
To take up- -on you what is yours You may
Con- -vey your plea- -sures in a spa- -cious plen- -ty
And yet seem cold the time you may so hood- -wink
We have will- -ing dames enough there can- -not be
That vul- -ture in you to de- -vour so many
As will to great- -ness ded- -i- -cate them- -selves
Find- -ing it so in- -clined
With this there grows
In my most il- -l- -- -com- -posed af- -fec- -tion such
A stanch- -less avarice that were I King
I should cut off the no- -bles for their lands
De- -sire his jew- -els and this oth- -er's house
And my more- -hav- -ing would be as a sauce
To make me hunger more that I should forge
Quar- -rels un- -just against the good and loy- -al
De- -stroy- -ing them for wealth
This avarice
Sticks deep- -er grows with more per- -ni- -cious root
Than sum- -mer- -seem- -ing lust and it hath been
The sword of our slain kings Yet do not fear
Scot- -land hath foi- -sons to fill up your will
Of your mere own All these are por- -ta- -ble
With oth- -er graces weigh'd
But I have none The king- -be- -com- -ing graces
As jus- -tice ver- -i- -ty tem- -per- -ance sta- -ble- -ness
Boun- -ty per- -se- -ver- -ance mer- -cy low- -li- -ness
De- -vo- -tion pa- -tience courage for- -ti- -tude
I have no rel- -ish of them but abound
In the di- -vi- -sion of each sev- -er- -al crime
Act- -ing it many ways Nay had I pow- -er I should
Pour the sweet milk of con- -cord in- -to hell
Up- -roar the uni- -ver- -sal peace con- -found
All uni- -ty on earth
O Scot- -land Scot- -land!
If such a one be fit to gov- -ern speak
I am as I have spo- -ken
Fit to gov- -ern?
No not to live O na- -tion mis- -er- -able!
With an un- -ti- -tled tyrant blood- -y- -s- -cepter'd
When shalt thou see thy whole- -some days again
Since that the truest is- -sue of thy throne
By his own in- -ter- -dic- -tion stands ac- -cursed
And does blas- -pheme his breed? Thy roy- -al fa- -ther
Was a most saint- -ed king the queen that bore thee
Of- -ten- -er up- -on her knees than on her feet
Died ev- -ery day she lived Fare thee well!
These evils thou re- -peat'st up- -on thy- -self
Have ban- -ish'd me from Scot- -land O my breast
Thy hope ends here!
Mac- -duff this no- -ble pas- -sion
Child of in- -tegri- -ty hath from my soul
Wiped the black scru- -ples rec- -on- -ciled my thoughts
To thy good truth and hon- -or Dev- -il- -ish Mac- -beth
By many of these trains hath sought to win me
In- -to his pow- -er and mod- -est wis- -dom plucks me
From over- -- -cred- -u- -lous haste But God above
Deal be- -tween thee and me! For even now
I put my- -self to thy di- -rec- -tion and
Un- -speak mine own de- -trac- -tion here ab- -jure
The taints and blames I laid up- -on my- -self
For strangers to my na- -ture I am yet
Un- -known to wom- -an nev- -er was for- -sworn
Scarce- -ly have cov- -et- -ed what was mine own
At no time broke my faith would not be- -tray
The dev- -il to his fel- -low and de- -light
No less in truth than life My first false speak- -ing
Was this up- -on my- -self What I am tru- -ly
Is thine and my poor coun- -try's to com- -mand
Whith- -er in- -deed be- -fore thy here- -ap- -proach
Old Si- -ward with ten thou- -sand war- -like men
Al- -ready at a point was set- -ting forth
Now we'll to- -geth- -er and the chance of good- -ness
Be like our war- -rant- -ed quar- -rel! Why are you silen- -t?
Such wel- -come and un- -wel- -come things at once
'Tis hard to rec- -on- -cile
En- -ter a Doc- -tor
Well more anon Comes the King forth I pray you?
Ay sir there are a crew of wretch- -ed souls
That stay his cure Their mal- -a- -dy con- -vinces
The great as- -say of art but at his touch
Such sanc- -ti- -ty hath heav- -en giv- -en his hand
They present- -ly amend
I thank you Doc- -tor Ex- -it Doc- -tor
What's the dis- -ease he mean- -s?
'Tis cal- -l'd the evil
A most mirac- -u- -lous work in this good King
Which of- -ten since my here- -re- -main in Eng- -land
I have seen him do How he so- -lic- -its heav- -en
Him- -self best knows but strange- -ly- -vis- -it- -ed peo- -ple
All swol'n and ul- -cer- -ous piti- -ful to the eye
The mere de- -spair of surgery he cures
Hang- -ing a gold- -en stamp about their necks
Put on with holy prayers and 'tis spo- -ken
To the suc- -ceed- -ing roy- -al- -ty he leaves
The heal- -ing bene- -dic- -tion With this strange virtue
He hath a heav- -en- -ly gift of prophe- -cy
And sundry bless- -ings hang about his throne
That speak him full of grace
En- -ter Ross
See who comes here?
My coun- -try- -man but yet I know him not
My ev- -er gen- -tle cousin wel- -come hith- -er
I know him now Good God be- -times re- -move
The means that makes us stranger- -s!
Sir amen
Stands Scot- -land where it did?
Alas poor coun- -try
Al- -most afraid to know it- -self! It can- -not
Be cal- -l'd our moth- -er but our grave Where noth- -ing
But who knows noth- -ing is once seen to smile
Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air
Are made not mark'd where vi- -o- -lent sor- -row seems
A mod- -ern ec- -sta- -sy The dead man's knell
Is there scarce ask'd for who and good men's lives
Ex- -pire be- -fore the flow- -ers in their caps
Dy- -ing or ere they sick- -en
O re- -la- -tion
Too nice and yet too true!
What's the new- -est grief?
That of an hour's age doth hiss the speak- -er
Each minute teems a new one
How does my wife?
Why well
And all my chil- -dren?
Well too
The tyrant has not bat- -ter'd at their peace?
No they were well at peace when I did leave 'em
Be not a nig- -gard of your speech How goest?
When I came hith- -er to trans- -port the tid- -ings
Which I have heav- -i- -ly borne there ran a ru- -mor
Of many wor- -thy fel- -lows that were out
Which was to my be- -lief wit- -ness'd the rather
For that I saw the tyran- -t's pow- -er afoot
Now is the time of help your eye in Scot- -land
Would cre- -ate sol- -diers make our wom- -en fight
To doff their dire dis- -tress- -es
Be't their com- -fort
We are com- -ing thith- -er Gra- -cious Eng- -land hath
Lent us good Si- -ward and ten thou- -sand men
An old- -er and a bet- -ter sol- -dier none
That Chris- -ten- -dom gives out
Would I could an- -swer
This com- -fort with the like! But I have words
That would be howl'd out in the desert air
Where hear- -ing should not latch them
What con- -cern they?
The gen- -er- -al cause? Or is it a fee- -- -grief
Due to some sin- -gle breast?
No mind that's hon- -est
But in it shares some woe though the main part
Per- -tains to you alone
If it be mine
Keep it not from me quick- -ly let me have it
Let not your ears de- -spise my tongue for- -ev- -er
Which shall pos- -sess them with the heav- -i- -est sound
That ev- -er yet they heard
Humh! I guess at it
Your cas- -tle is sur- -prised your wife and babes
Sav- -age- -ly slaugh- -ter'd To re- -late the man- -ner
Were on the quar- -ry of these mur- -ther'd deer
To add the death of you
Mer- -ci- -ful heav- -en!
What man! Neer pull your hat up- -on your brows
Give sor- -row words The grief that does not speak
Whis- -pers the o'er- -fraught heart and bids it break
My chil- -dren too?
Wife chil- -dren ser- -vants all
That could be found
And I must be from thence!
My wife kil- -l'd too?
I have said
Be com- -fort- -ed
Let's make us medicines of our great re- -venge
To cure this dead- -ly grief
He has no chil- -dren All my pret- -ty ones?
Did you say al- -l? O hel- -l- -kite! Al- -l?
What all my pret- -ty chick- -ens and their dam
At one fell swoop?
Dis- -pute it like a man
I shall do so
But I must al- -so feel it as a man
I can- -not but re- -mem- -ber such things were
That were most pre- -cious to me Did heav- -en look on
And would not take their part? Sin- -ful Mac- -duff
They were all struck for thee! Naught that I am
Not for their own de- -mer- -its but for mine
Fell slaugh- -ter on their souls Heav- -en rest them now!
Be this the whet- -stone of your sword Let grief
Con- -vert to anger blunt not the heart en- -rage it
O I could play the wom- -an with mine eyes
And brag- -gart with my tongue! But gen- -tle heav- -ens
Cut short all in- -ter- -mis- -sion front to front
Bring thou this fiend of Scot- -land and my- -self
With- -in my sword's length set him if he 's- -cape
Heav- -en for- -give him too!
This tune goes man- -ly
Come go we to the King our pow- -er is ready
Our lack is noth- -ing but our leave Mac- -beth
Is ripe for shak- -ing and the pow- -ers above
Put on their in- -stru- -ments Re- -ceive what cheer you may
The night is long that nev- -er finds the day Exe- -unt
I have two nights watched with you but can per- -ceive no
truth in your re- -port When was it she last walked?
Since his Majesty went in- -to the field have seen
rise from her bed throw her night- -gown up- -on her un- -lock her
clos- -et take forth pa- -per fold it write up- -on't read it
af- -ter- -wards seal it and again re- -turn to bed yet all this
in a most fast sleep
A great per- -tur- -ba- -tion in na- -ture to re- -ceive at once the
ben- -e- -fit of sleep and do the ef- -fects of watch- -ing! In this
ag- -i- -ta- -tion be- -sides her walk- -ing and oth- -er ac- -tu- -al per- -for- -mances
what at any time have you heard her say?
That sir which I will not re- -port af- -ter her
You may to me and 'tis most meet you should
Nei- -ther to you nor any- -one hav- -ing no wit- -ness to
con- -firm my speech
En- -ter La- -dy Mac- -beth with a ta- -per
Lo you here she comes! This is her very guise and up- -on my
life fast asleep Ob- -serve her stand close
How came she by that light?
Why it stood by her She has light by her
con- -tin- -u- -al- -ly 'tis her com- -mand
You see her eyes are open
Ay but their sense is shut
What is it she does now? Look how she rubs her hands
It is an ac- -cus- -tomed ac- -tion with her to seem thus
wash- -ing her hands I have known her con- -tin- -ue in this a
an hour
Yet here's a spot
Hark she speak- -s! I will set down what comes from her
sat- -is- -fy my re- -mem- -brance the more strong- -ly
Out damned spot! Out I say! One two why then
time to do't Hell is murky Fie my lord fie! A sol- -dier
afeard? What need we fear who knows it when none can call
pow- -er to ac- -coun- -t? Yet who would have thought the old man to
had so much blood in him?
Do you mark that?
The Thane of Fife had a wife where is she now?
will these hands neer be clean? No more o' that my lord no
o' that You mar all with this start- -ing
Go to go to you have known what you should not
She has spoke what she should not I am sure of
Heav- -en knows what she has known
Here's the smell of the blood still All the
of Ara- -bia will not sweet- -en this lit- -tle hand Oh oh oh!
What a sigh is there! The heart is sore- -ly charged
I would not have such a heart in my bo- -som for the
dig- -ni- -ty of the whole body
Well well well
Pray God it be sir
This dis- -ease is be- -yond my prac- -tice Yet I have known
which have walked in their sleep who have died ho- -lily in
beds
Wash your hands put on your night- -gown look not
pale I tell you yet again Ban- -quo's buried he can- -not come
on's grave
Even so?
To bed to bed there's knock- -ing at the gate
come come come give me your hand.What's done can- -not be
To bed to bed to bed
Will she go now to bed?
Di- -rect- -ly
Foul whis- -per- -ings are abroad Un- -nat- -u- -ral deeds
Do breed un- -nat- -u- -ral trou- -bles in- -fect- -ed minds
To their deaf pil- -lows will dis- -charge their se- -crets
More needs she the di- -vine than the physi- -cian
God God for- -give us al- -l! Look af- -ter her
Re- -move from her the means of all an- -noy- -ance
And still keep eyes up- -on her So good night
My mind she has mat- -ed and amazed my sight
I think but dare not speak
Good night good doc- -tor
Exe- -unt
The Eng- -lish pow- -er is near led on by Mal- -colm
His un- -cle Si- -ward and the good Mac- -duff
Re- -venges burn in them for their dear caus- -es
Would to the bleed- -ing and the grim alarm
Ex- -cite the mor- -ti- -fied man
Near Bir- -nam Wood
Shall we well meet them that way are they com- -ing
Who knows if Don- -al- -bain be with his broth- -er?
For cer- -tain sir he is not I have a file
Of all the gen- -try There is Se- -ward's son
And many un- -rough youths that even now
Protest their first of man- -hood
What does the tyran- -t?
Great Dun- -si- -nane he strong- -ly for- -ti- -fies
Some say he's mad oth- -ers that less- -er hate him
Do call it valiant fury but for cer- -tain
He can- -not buck- -le his dis- -tem- -per'd cause
With- -in the belt of rule
Now does he feel
His se- -cret mur- -thers stick- -ing on his hands
Now minute- -ly re- -volts up- -braid his faith- -breach
Those he com- -mands move on- -ly in com- -mand
Noth- -ing in love Now does he feel his ti- -tle
Hang loose about him like a gi- -ant's robe
Up- -on a dwarfish thief
Who then shall blame
His pester'd sens- -es to re- -coil and start
When all that is with- -in him does con- -demn
It- -self for be- -ing there?
Well march we on
To give obe- -di- -ence where 'tis tru- -ly owed
Meet we the medicine of the sick- -ly weal
And with him pour we in our coun- -try's purge
Each drop of us
Or so much as it needs
To dew the sov- -er- -eign flow- -er and drown the weeds
Make we our march to- -wards Bir- -nam Exe- -unt march- -ing
Bring me no more re- -ports let them fly al- -l!
Till Bir- -nam Wood re- -move to Dun- -si- -nane
I can- -not taint with fear What's the boy Mal- -colm?
Was he not born of wom- -an? The spir- -its that know
All mor- -tal con- -se- -quences have pro- -nounced me thus
"Fear not Mac- -beth no man that's born of wom- -an
Shall e'er have pow- -er up- -on thee." Then fly false Thanes
And min- -gle with the Eng- -lish epi- -cures!
The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
Shall nev- -er sag with doubt nor shake with fear
En- -ter a Ser- -vant
The dev- -il damn thee black thou cream- -- -faced loon!
Where got'st thou that goose look?
There is ten thou- -sand
Geese vil- -lain?
Sol- -diers sir
Go prick thy face and over- -red thy fear
Thou lily- -liv- -er'd boy What sol- -diers patch?
Death of thy soul! Those linen cheeks of thine
Are coun- -selors to fear What sol- -diers whey- -- -face?
The Eng- -lish force so please you
Take thy face hence Ex- -it Ser- -vant
Sey- -ton- -I am sick at heart
When I be- -hold Sey- -ton I say! This push
Will cheer me ev- -er or dis- -seat me now
I have lived long enough My way of life
Is fal- -l'n in- -to the sear the yel- -low leaf
And that which should ac- -com- -pa- -ny old age
As hon- -or love obe- -di- -ence troops of friends
I must not look to have but in their stead
Curs- -es not loud but deep mouth- -honor breath
Which the poor heart would fain de- -ny and dare not
Sey- -ton!
En- -ter Sey- -ton
What's your gra- -cious plea- -sure?
What news more?
All is con- -fir- -m'd my lord which was re- -port- -ed
I'll fight 'til from my bones my flesh be hack- -'d
Give me my ar- -mor
'Tis not need- -ed yet
I'll put it on
Send out more hors- -es skirr the coun- -try round
Hang those that talk of fear Give me mine ar- -mor
How does your pa- -tient doc- -tor?
Not so sick my lord
As she is trou- -bled with thick- -- -- -com- -ing fan- -cies
That keep her from her rest
Cure her of that
Canst thou not min- -is- -ter to a mind dis- -eased
Pluck from the mem- -o- -ry a root- -ed sor- -row
Raze out the writ- -ten trou- -bles of the brain
And with some sweet obliv- -i- -ous an- -ti- -dote
Cleanse the stuff'd bo- -som of that per- -ilous stuff
Which weighs up- -on the heart?
There- -in the pa- -tient
Must min- -is- -ter to him- -self
Throw physic to the dogs I'll none of it
Come put mine ar- -mor on give me my staff
Sey- -ton send out Doc- -tor the Thanes fly from me
Come sir dis- -patch If thou couldst doc- -tor cast
The wa- -ter of my land find her dis- -ease
And purge it to a sound and pris- -tine health
I would ap- -plaud thee to the very echo
That should ap- -plaud again Pul- -l't off I say
What rhubarb cyme or what purga- -tive drug
Would scour these Eng- -lish hence? Hearst thou of them?
Ay my good lord your roy- -al prepa- -ra- -tion
Makes us hear some- -thing
Bring it af- -ter me
I will not be afraid of death and bane
Till Bir- -nam For- -est come to Dun- -si- -nane
[A- -side.] Were I from Dun- -si- -nane away and clear
Prof- -it again should hard- -ly draw me here Exe- -unt
Cousins I hope the days are near at hand
That cham- -bers will be safe
We doubt it noth- -ing
What wood is this be- -fore us?
The Wood of Bir- -nam
Let ev- -ery sol- -dier hew him down a bough
And bear't be- -fore him there- -by shall we shad- -ow
The num- -bers of our host and make dis- -cov- -ery
Err in re- -port of us
It shall be done
We learn no oth- -er but the con- -fi- -dent tyrant
Keeps still in Dun- -si- -nane and will en- -dure
Our set- -ting down be- -fore't
'Tis his main hope
For where there is ad- -van- -tage to be giv- -en
Both more and less have giv- -en him the re- -volt
And none serve with him but con- -strained things
Whose hearts are ab- -sent too
Let our just cen- -sures
At- -tend the true event and put we on
In- -dus- -tri- -ous sol- -dier- -ship
The time ap- -proach- -es
That will with due de- -ci- -sion make us know
What we shall say we have and what we owe
Thoughts spec- -u- -la- -tive their un- -sure hopes re- -late
But cer- -tain is- -sue strokes must ar- -bi- -trate
To- -wards which ad- -vance the war
Exe- -unt March- -ing
Hang out our ban- -ners on the out- -ward walls
The cry is still "They come!" Our castle's strength
Will laugh a siege to scorn Here let them lie
Till famine and the ague eat them up
Were they not forced with those that should be ours
We might have met them dare- -ful beard to beard
And beat them back- -ward home
A cry of wom- -en with- -in
What is that noise?
It is the cry of wom- -en my good lord Ex- -it
I have al- -most for- -got the taste of fears
The time has been my sens- -es would have cool'd
To hear a night- -shriek and my fell of hair
Would at a dis- -mal trea- -tise rouse and stir
As life were in- -'t I have sup- -p'd full with hor- -rors
Dire- -ness fa- -mil- -iar to my slaugh- -ter- -ous thoughts
Can- -not once start me
Re- -en- -ter Sey- -ton
Where- -fore was that cry?
The Queen my lord is dead
She should have died here- -after
There would have been a time for such a word
To- -mor- -row and to- -mor- -row and to- -mor- -row
Creeps in this pet- -ty pace from day to day
To the last syl- -la- -ble of record- -ed time
And all our yes- -ter- -days have light- -ed fools
The way to dusty death Out out brief can- -dle!
Life's but a walk- -ing shad- -ow a poor play- -er
That struts and frets his hour up- -on the stage
And then is heard no more It is a tale
Told by an id- -iot full of sound and fury
Sig- -ni- -fy- -ing noth- -ing
En- -ter a Mes- -sen- -ger
Thou comest to use thy tongue thy sto- -ry quick- -ly
Gra- -cious my lord
I should re- -port that which I say I saw
But know not how to do it
Well say sir
As I did stand my watch up- -on the hill
I look'd to- -ward Bir- -nam and anon methought
The Wood be- -gan to move
Liar and slave!
Let me en- -dure your wrath if't be not so
With- -in this three mile may you see it com- -ing
I say a mov- -ing grove
If thou speak'st false
Up- -on the next tree shalt thou hang alive
Till famine cling thee if thy speech be sooth
I care not if thou dost for me as much
I pull in res- -o- -lu- -tion and be- -gin
To doubt the equiv- -o- -ca- -tion of the fiend
That lies like truth "Fear not till Bir- -nam Wood
Do come to Dun- -si- -nane," and now a wood
Comes to- -ward Dun- -si- -nane Arm arm and out!
If this which he avouch- -es does ap- -pear
There is nor fly- -ing hence nor tar- -ry- -ing here
I 'gin to be aweary of the sun
And wish the es- -tate o' the world were now un- -done
Ring the alarum bel- -l! Blow wind! Come wrack!
At least we'll die with har- -ness on our back Exe- -unt
Now near enough your leavy screens throw down
And show like those you are You wor- -thy un- -cle
Shall with my cousin your right no- -ble son
Lead our first bat- -tle Wor- -thy Mac- -duff and we
Shall take up- -on 's what else re- -mains to do
Ac- -cord- -ing to our or- -der
Fare you well
Do we but find the tyran- -t's pow- -er tonight
Let us be beat- -en if we can- -not fight
Make all our trum- -pets speak give them all breath
Those clam- -orous har- -bin- -gers of blood and death
Exe- -unt
They have tied me to a stake I can- -not fly
But bear- -- -like I must fight the course What's he
That was not born of wom- -an? Such a one
Am I to fear or none
En- -ter young Si- -ward
What is thy name?
Thou'lt be afraid to hear it
No though thou cal- -l'st thy- -self a hot- -ter name
Than any is in hell
My name's Mac- -beth
The dev- -il him- -self could not pro- -nounce a ti- -tle
More hate- -ful to mine ear
No nor more fear- -ful
YOUNG SI- -WARD O Thou li- -est ab- -horred tyrant with my sword
I'll prove the lie thou speak'st
They fight and young Se- -ward is slain
Thou wast born of wom- -an
But swords I smile at weapons laugh to scorn
Bran- -dish'd by man that's of a wom- -an born Ex- -it
Alarums En- -ter Mac- -duff
That way the noise is Tyrant show thy face!
If thou best slain and with no stroke of mine
My wife and chil- -dren's ghosts will haunt me still
I can- -not strike at wretch- -ed kerns whose arms
Are hired to bear their staves Ei- -ther thou Mac- -beth
Or else my sword with an un- -bat- -ter'd edge
I sheathe again un- -deed- -ed There thou shouldst be
By this great clat- -ter one of great- -est note
Seems bruit- -ed Let me find him For- -tune!
And more I beg not Ex- -it Alarums
En- -ter Mal- -colm and old Si- -ward
This way my lord the castle's gen- -tly ren- -der'd
The tyran- -t's peo- -ple on both sides do fight
The no- -ble Thanes do brave- -ly in the war
The day al- -most it- -self pro- -fess- -es yours
And lit- -tle is to do
We have met with foes
That strike be- -side us
En- -ter sir the cas- -tle
Exe- -unt Alarum
Why should I play the Ro- -man fool and die
On mine own sword? Whiles I see lives the gash- -es
Do bet- -ter up- -on them
En- -ter Mac- -duff
Turn hell hound turn!
Of all men else I have avoid- -ed thee
But get thee back my soul is too much charged
With blood of thine al- -ready
I have no words
My voice is in my sword thou blood- -i- -er vil- -lain
Than terms can give thee out! They fight
Thou los- -est la- -bor
As easy mayst thou the in- -tren- -chant air
With thy keen sword im- -press as make me bleed
Let fall thy blade on vul- -ner- -a- -ble crests
I bear a charmed life which must not yield
To one of wom- -an born
De- -spair thy charm
And let the an- -gel whom thou still hast served
Tell thee Mac- -duff was from his moth- -er's womb
Un- -time- -ly rip- -p'd
Ac- -cursed be that tongue that tells me so
For it hath cow'd my bet- -ter part of man!
And be these jug- -gling fiends no more be- -lieved
That pat- -ter with us in a dou- -ble sense
That keep the word of prom- -ise to our ear
And break it to our hope I'll not fight with thee
Then yield thee cow- -ard
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time
We'll have thee as our rar- -er mon- -sters are
Paint- -ed up- -on a pole and un- -der- -writ
"Here may you see the tyran- -t."
I will not yield
To kiss the ground be- -fore young Mal- -colm's feet
And to be bait- -ed with the rab- -ble's curse
Though Bir- -nam Wood be come to Dun- -si- -nane
And thou op- -posed be- -ing of no wom- -an born
Yet I will try the last Be- -fore my body
I throw my war- -like shield! Lay on Mac- -duff
And damn'd be him that first cries "Hold enough!"
Exe- -unt fight- -ing Alarums
I would the friends we miss were safe ar- -rived
Some must go off and yet by these I see
So great a day as this is cheap- -ly bought
Mac- -duff is miss- -ing and your no- -ble son
Your son my lord has paid a sol- -dier's debt
He on- -ly lived but till he was a man
The which no soon- -er had his prow- -ess con- -fir- -m'd
In the un- -shrink- -ing sta- -tion where he fought
But like a man he died
Then he is dead?
Ay and brought off the field Your cause of sor- -row
Must not be mea- -sured by his worth for then
It hath no end
Had he his hurts be- -fore?
Ay on the front
Why then God's sol- -dier be he!
Had I as many sons as I have hairs
I would not wish them to a fair- -er death
And so his knell is knol- -l'd
He's worth more sor- -row
And that I'll spend for him
He's worth no more
They say he part- -ed well and paid his score
And so God be with him! Here comes new- -er com- -fort
Re- -en- -ter Mac- -duff with Mac- -beth's head
Hail King for so thou art Be- -hold where stands
The usurper's cursed head The time is free
I see thee com- -pass'd with thy king- -dom's pearl
That speak my salu- -ta- -tion in their minds
Whose voic- -es I de- -sire aloud with mine
Hail King of Scot- -land!
Hail King of Scot- -land! Flour- -ish
We shall not spend a large ex- -pense of time
Be- -fore we reck- -on with your sev- -er- -al loves
And make us even with you My Thanes and kins- -men
Hence- -forth be Earls the first that ev- -er Scot- -land
In such an hon- -or named What's more to do
Which would be plant- -ed new- -ly with the time
As call- -ing home our ex- -iled friends abroad
That fled the snares of watch- -ful tyran- -ny
Pro- -duc- -ing forth the cru- -el min- -is- -ters
Of this dead butch- -er and his fiend- -- -like queen
Who as 'tis thought by self and vi- -o- -lent hands
Took off her life this and what need- -ful else
That calls up- -on us by the grace of Grace
We will per- -form in mea- -sure time and place
So thanks to all at once and to each one
Whom we in- -vite to see us crown'd at Scone
Flour- -ish Exe- -unt