In sooth I know not why I am so sad
It wea- -ries me you say it wea- -ries you
But how I caught it found it or came by it
What stuff 'tis made of where- -of it is born
I am to learn
And such a wan- -t- -wit sad- -ness makes of me
That I have much ado to know my- -self
Your mind is toss- -ing on the ocean
There where your ar- -gosies with port- -ly sail
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood
Or as it were the pageants of the sea
Do over- -peer the pet- -ty traf- -fick- -ers
That curt- -sy to them do them rev- -er- -ence
As they fly by them with their wo- -ven wings
Be- -lieve me sir had I such ven- -ture forth
The bet- -ter part of my af- -fec- -tions would
Be with my hopes abroad I should be still
Pluck- -ing the grass to know where sits the wind
Peer- -ing in maps for ports and piers and roads
And ev- -ery ob- -ject that might make me fear
Mis- -for- -tune to my ven- -tures out of doubt
Would make me sad
My wind cool- -ing my broth
Would blow me to an ague when I thought
What harm a wind too great might do at sea
I should not see the sandy hour- -- -glass run
But I should think of shal- -lows and of flats
And see my wealthy An- -drew dock- -'d in sand
Vail- -ing her high top low- -er than her ribs
To kiss her buri- -al Should I go to church
And see the holy ed- -i- -fice of stone
And not be- -think me straight of dan- -ger- -ous rocks
Which touch- -ing but my gen- -tle ves- -sel's side
Would scat- -ter all her spices on the stream
En- -robe the roar- -ing wa- -ters with my silks
And in a word but even now worth this
And now worth noth- -ing? Shall I have the thought
To think on this and shall I lack the thought
That such a thing bechanc'd would make me sad?
But tell not me I know An- -to- -nio
Is sad to think up- -on his mer- -chan- -dise
Be- -lieve me no I thank my for- -tune for it
My ven- -tures are not in one bot- -tom trust- -ed
Nor to one place nor is my whole es- -tate
Up- -on the for- -tune of this present year
There- -fore my mer- -chan- -dise makes me not sad
Why then you are in love
Fie fie!
Not in love nei- -ther? Then let us say you are sad
Be- -cause you are not mer- -ry and 'twere as easy
For you to laugh and leap and say you are mer- -ry
Be- -cause you are not sad Now by two- -- -head- -ed Janus
Na- -ture hath fram'd strange fel- -lows in her time
Some that will ev- -er- -more peep through their eyes
And laugh like par- -rots at a bag- -piper
And oth- -er of such vine- -gar as- -pect
That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile
Though Nestor swear the jest be laugh- -able
En- -ter BAS- -SANIO LOREN- -ZO and GRA- -TIANO
Here comes Bas- -sanio your most no- -ble kins- -man
Gra- -tiano and Loren- -zo Fare ye well
We leave you now with bet- -ter com- -pa- -ny
I would have stay'd till I had made you mer- -ry
If wor- -thi- -er friends had not pre- -vent- -ed me
Your worth is very dear in my re- -gard
I take it your own busi- -ness calls on you
And you em- -brace th' oc- -ca- -sion to de- -part
Good mor- -row my good lords
Good signiors both when shall we laugh? Say when
You grow ex- -ceed- -ing strange must it be so?
We'll make our leisures to at- -tend on yours
Exe- -unt SA- -LE- -RIO and SOLANIO
My Lord Bas- -sanio since you have found An- -to- -nio
We two will leave you but at din- -ner- -- -time
I pray you have in mind where we must meet
I will not fail you
You look not well Signior An- -to- -nio
You have too much re- -spect up- -on the world
They lose it that do buy it with much care
Be- -lieve me you are mar- -vel- -lous- -ly chang'd
I hold the world but as the world Gra- -tiano
A stage where ev- -ery man must play a part
And mine a sad one
Let me play the fool
With mirth and laugh- -ter let old wrin- -kles come
And let my liv- -er rather heat with wine
Than my heart cool with mor- -ti- -fy- -ing groans
Why should a man whose blood is warm with- -in
Sit like his grand- -sire cut in al- -abaster
Sleep when he wakes and creep in- -to the jaun- -dice
By be- -ing pee- -vish? I tell thee what An- -to- -nio
I love thee and 'tis my love that speaks
There are a sort of men whose vis- -ages
Do cream and man- -tle like a stand- -ing pond
And do a wil- -ful still- -ness en- -ter- -tain
With pur- -pose to be dress'd in an opin- -ion
Of wis- -dom grav- -i- -ty pro- -found con- -ceit
As who should say 'I am Sir Or- -a- -cle
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark.'
O my An- -to- -nio I do know of these
That there- -fore on- -ly are re- -put- -ed wise
For say- -ing noth- -ing when I am very sure
If they should speak would al- -most damn those ears
Which hear- -ing them would call their broth- -ers fools
I'll tell thee more of this an- -oth- -er time
But fish not with this melan- -choly bait
For this fool gud- -geon this opin- -ion
Come good Loren- -zo Fare ye well awhile
I'll end my ex- -hor- -ta- -tion af- -ter din- -ner
Well we will leave you then till din- -ner- -- -time
I must be one of these same dumb wise men
For Gra- -tiano nev- -er lets me speak
Well keep me com- -pa- -ny but two years moe
Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue
Fare you well I'll grow a talk- -er for this gear
Thanks i' faith for si- -lence is on- -ly com- -mend- -able
In a neat's tongue dried and a maid not vendible
Exe- -unt GRA- -TIANO and LOREN- -ZO
Is that any- -thing now?
Gra- -tiano speaks an in- -fi- -nite deal of noth- -ing more
any man in all Venice His rea- -sons are as two grains of wheat
in two bushels of chaff you shall seek all day ere you find
them and when you have them they are not worth the search
Well tell me now what la- -dy is the same
To whom you swore a se- -cret pil- -grim- -age
That you to- -- -day promis'd to tell me of?
'Tis not un- -known to you An- -to- -nio
How much I have dis- -abled mine es- -tate
By some- -thing show- -ing a more swelling port
Than my faint means would grant con- -tin- -u- -ance
Nor do I now make moan to be abridg'd
From such a no- -ble rate but my chief care
Is to come fair- -ly off from the great debts
Where- -in my time some- -thing too prodi- -gal
Hath left me gag'd To you An- -to- -nio
I owe the most in mon- -ey and in love
And from your love I have a war- -ran- -ty
To un- -bur- -den all my plots and pur- -pos- -es
How to get clear of all the debts I owe
I pray you good Bas- -sanio let me know it
And if it stand as you your- -self still do
With- -in the eye of hon- -our be as- -sur'd
My purse my per- -son my ex- -tremest means
Lie all un- -lock- -'d to your oc- -ca- -sions
In my school- -- -days when I had lost one shaft
I shot his fel- -low of the self- -- -same flight
The self- -- -same way with more ad- -vised watch
To find the oth- -er forth and by ad- -ven- -tur- -ing both
I oft found both I urge this child- -hood proof
Be- -cause what fol- -lows is pure in- -no- -cence
I owe you much and like a wil- -ful youth
That which I owe is lost but if you please
To shoot an- -oth- -er ar- -row that self way
Which you did shoot the first I do not doubt
As I will watch the aim or to find both
Or bring your lat- -ter haz- -ard back again
And thank- -ful- -ly rest debtor for the first
You know me well and here- -in spend but time
To wind about my love with cir- -cum- -stance
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong
In mak- -ing ques- -tion of my ut- -ter- -most
Than if you had made waste of all I have
Then do but say to me what I should do
That in your knowl- -edge may by me be done
And I am prest un- -to it there- -fore speak
In Bel- -mont is a la- -dy rich- -ly left
And she is fair and fair- -er than that word
Of won- -drous virtues Some- -times from her eyes
I did re- -ceive fair speech- -less mes- -sages
Her name is Por- -tia noth- -ing un- -der- -val- -u'd
To Cato's daugh- -ter Bru- -tus' Por- -tia
Nor is the wide world ig- -no- -rant of her worth
For the four winds blow in from ev- -ery coast
Renowned suit- -ors and her sun- -ny locks
Hang on her tem- -ples like a gold- -en fleece
Which makes her seat of Bel- -mont Col- -chos' strond
And many Ja- -sons come in quest of her
O my An- -to- -nio had I but the means
To hold a ri- -val place with one of them
I have a mind presages me such thrift
That I should ques- -tion- -less be for- -tu- -nate
Thou know'st that all my for- -tunes are at sea
Nei- -ther have I mon- -ey nor com- -mod- -i- -ty
To raise a present sum there- -fore go forth
Try what my cred- -it can in Venice do
That shall be rack- -'d even to the ut- -ter- -most
To fur- -nish thee to Bel- -mont to fair Por- -tia
Go present- -ly in- -quire and so will I
Where mon- -ey is and I no ques- -tion make
To have it of my trust or for my sake Exe- -unt
By my troth Ner- -is- -sa my lit- -tle body is aweary of this
great world
You would be sweet madam if your mis- -eries were in
same abun- -dance as your good for- -tunes are and yet for aught
see they are as sick that sur- -feit with too much as they that
starve with noth- -ing It is no mean hap- -pi- -ness there- -fore to
seat- -ed in the mean su- -per- -fluity come soon- -er by white hairs
com- -pe- -ten- -cy lives longer
Good sen- -tences and well pro- -nounc'd
They would be bet- -ter if well fol- -lowed
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do
chapels had been church- -es and poor men's cot- -tages princes'
palaces It is a good di- -vine that fol- -lows his own
can eas- -i- -er teach twen- -ty what were good to be done than to be
of the twen- -ty to fol- -low mine own teach- -ing The brain may
laws for the blood but a hot tem- -per leaps o'er a cold
such a hare is mad- -ness the youth to skip o'er the mesh- -es of
coun- -sel the crip- -ple But this rea- -son- -ing is not in the fash- -ion
choose me a hus- -band O me the word 'choose'! I may nei- -ther
choose who I would nor refuse who I dis- -like so is the will
liv- -ing daugh- -ter cur- -b'd by the will of a dead fa- -ther Is it
hard Ner- -is- -sa that I can- -not choose one nor refuse none?
Your fa- -ther was ev- -er vir- -tu- -ous and holy men at their
have good in- -spi- -ra- -tions there- -fore the lot- -t'ry that he hath
de- -vised in these three chests of gold sil- -ver and lead
who choos- -es his mean- -ing choos- -es you will no doubt nev- -er be
cho- -sen by any right- -ly but one who you shall right- -ly love But
what warmth is there in your af- -fec- -tion to- -wards any of these
prince- -ly suit- -ors that are al- -ready come?
I pray thee over- -- -name them and as thou namest them I
de- -scribe them and ac- -cord- -ing to my de- -scrip- -tion lev- -el at my
af- -fec- -tion
First there is the Neapoli- -tan prince
Ay that's a colt in- -deed for he doth noth- -ing but talk
his horse and he makes it a great ap- -pro- -pri- -a- -tion to his own
parts that he can shoe him him- -self I am much afear'd my la- -dy
moth- -er play'd false with a smith
Then is there the Coun- -ty Pala- -tine
He doth noth- -ing but frown as who should say 'An you
not have me choose.' He hears mer- -ry tales and smiles not I
he will prove the weep- -ing philoso- -pher when he grows old
full of un- -man- -ner- -ly sad- -ness in his youth I had rather be
to a death's- -- -head with a bone in his mouth than to ei- -ther of
these God de- -fend me from these two!
How say you by the French lord Mon- -sieur Le Bon?
God made him and there- -fore let him pass for a man In
truth I know it is a sin to be a mock- -er but he why he
horse bet- -ter than the Neapoli- -tan's a bet- -ter bad habit of
frown- -ing than the Count Pala- -tine he is ev- -ery man in no man
thros- -tle sing he falls straight a- -- -cap'ring he will fence
his own shad- -ow if I should mar- -ry him I should mar- -ry twen- -ty
hus- -bands If he would de- -spise me I would for- -give him for if
love me to mad- -ness I shall nev- -er re- -quite him
What say you then to Fal- -con- -bridge the young baron of
Eng- -land?
You know I say noth- -ing to him for he un- -der- -stands not
nor I him he hath nei- -ther Latin French nor Ital- -ian and
will come in- -to the court and swear that I have a poor
in the Eng- -lish He is a prop- -er man's pic- -ture but alas who
con- -verse with a dum- -b- -- -show? How odd- -ly he is suit- -ed! I think he
bought his dou- -blet in Italy his round hose in France his
in Ger- -many and his be- -hav- -iour ev- -ery- -where
What think you of the Scot- -tish lord his neigh- -bour?
That he hath a neigh- -bourly char- -i- -ty in him for he
a box of the ear of the En- -glish- -man and swore he would pay
again when he was able I think the French- -man be- -came his
and seal'd un- -der for an- -oth- -er
How like you the young Ger- -man the Duke of Sax- -ony's
nephew?
Very vile- -ly in the morn- -ing when he is sober and most
vile- -ly in the af- -ter- -noon when he is drunk When he is best he
a lit- -tle worse than a man and when he is worst he is lit- -tle
bet- -ter than a beast An the worst fall that ev- -er fell I hope
shall make shift to go with- -out him
If he should of- -fer to choose and choose the right
you should refuse to per- -form your fa- -ther's will if you
refuse to ac- -cept him
There- -fore for fear of the worst I pray thee set a
glass of Rhen- -ish wine on the con- -trary cas- -ket for if the
with- -in and that temp- -ta- -tion with- -out I know he will choose it
will do any- -thing Ner- -is- -sa ere I will be mar- -ried to a sponge
You need not fear la- -dy the hav- -ing any of these
they have ac- -quaint- -ed me with their de- -ter- -mi- -na- -tions which is
in- -deed to re- -turn to their home and to trou- -ble you with no
suit un- -less you may be won by some oth- -er sort than your
im- -po- -si- -tion de- -pend- -ing on the cas- -kets
If I live to be as old as Sibyl- -la I will die as chaste
Di- -ana un- -less I be ob- -tained by the man- -ner of my fa- -ther's
am glad this par- -cel of woo- -ers are so rea- -son- -able for there is
one among them but I dote on his very ab- -sence and I pray God
grant them a fair de- -par- -ture
Do you not re- -mem- -ber la- -dy in your fa- -ther's time a
Vene- -tian a schol- -ar and a sol- -dier that came hith- -er in
the Mar- -quis of Mont- -fer- -rat?
Yes yes it was Bas- -sanio as I think so was he
True madam he of all the men that ev- -er my fool- -ish
look'd up- -on was the best de- -serv- -ing a fair la- -dy
I re- -mem- -ber him well and I re- -mem- -ber him wor- -thy of thy
praise
En- -ter a SERV- -ING- -MAN
How now! what news?
The four strangers seek for you madam to take
leave and there is a fore- -run- -ner come from a fifth the
Mo- -roc- -co who brings word the Prince his mas- -ter will be here
to- -night
If I could bid the fifth wel- -come with so good heart as
can bid the oth- -er four farewell I should be glad of his
ap- -proach if he have the con- -di- -tion of a saint and the
of a dev- -il I had rather he should shrive me than wive me
Come Ner- -is- -sa Sir- -rah go be- -fore
Whiles we shut the gate up- -on one woo- -er an- -oth- -er knocks at the
door Exe- -unt
Three thou- -sand ducats well
Ay sir for three months
For three months well
For the which as I told you An- -to- -nio shall be bound
An- -to- -nio shall be- -come bound well
May you stead me? Will you plea- -sure me? Shall I know
an- -swer?
Three thou- -sand ducats for three months and An- -to- -nio
Your an- -swer to that
An- -to- -nio is a good man
Have you heard any im- -pu- -ta- -tion to the con- -trary?
Ho no no no no my mean- -ing in say- -ing he is a good
is to have you un- -der- -stand me that he is suf- -fi- -cient yet his
are in sup- -po- -si- -tion he hath an ar- -gosy bound to Tripo- -lis
to the In- -dies I un- -der- -stand more- -over up- -on the Ri- -al- -to he
third at Mex- -i- -co a fourth for Eng- -land and oth- -er ven- -tures he
hath squand'red abroad But ships are but boards sailors
men there be land- -rats and wa- -ter- -rats wa- -ter- -thieves and
land- -thieves I mean pi- -rates and then there is the per- -il of
wa- -ters winds and rocks The man is not- -with- -stand- -ing
suf- -fi- -cient Three thou- -sand ducats I think I may take his
Be as- -sur'd you may
I will be as- -sur'd I may and that I may be as- -sured I
will be- -think me May I speak with An- -to- -nio?
If it please you to dine with us
Yes to smell pork to eat of the habi- -ta- -tion which
prophet the Nazarite con- -jured the dev- -il in- -to! I will buy
you sell with you talk with you walk with you and so
fol- -low- -ing but I will not eat with you drink with you nor
with you What news on the Ri- -al- -to? Who is he comes here?
En- -ter AN- -TO- -NIO
This is Signior An- -to- -nio
[Aside] How like a fawn- -ing pub- -li- -can he look- -s!
I hate him for he is a Chris- -tian
But more for that in low sim- -plic- -i- -ty
He lends out mon- -ey gratis and brings down
The rate of us- -ance here with us in Venice
If I can catch him once up- -on the hip
I will feed fat the an- -cient grudge I bear him
He hates our sa- -cred na- -tion and he rails
Even there where mer- -chants most do con- -gre- -gate
On me my bar- -gains and my well- -- -won thrift
Which he calls in- -ter- -est Cursed be my tribe
If I for- -give him!
Shy- -lock do you hear?
I am de- -bat- -ing of my present store
And by the near guess of my mem- -o- -ry
I can- -not in- -stant- -ly raise up the gross
Of full three thou- -sand ducats What of that?
Tubal a wealthy He- -brew of my tribe
Will fur- -nish me But soft! how many months
Do you de- -sire? [To AN- -TO- -NIO] Rest you fair good signior
Your wor- -ship was the last man in our mouths
Shy- -lock al- -beit I nei- -ther lend nor bor- -row
By tak- -ing nor by giv- -ing of ex- -cess
Yet to sup- -ply the ripe wants of my friend
I'll break a cus- -tom [To BAS- -SAN- -IO] Is he yet pos- -sess'd
How much ye would?
Ay ay three thou- -sand ducats
And for three months
I had for- -got three months you told me so
Well then your bond and let me see but hear you
Methoughts you said you nei- -ther lend nor bor- -row
Up- -on ad- -van- -tage
I do nev- -er use it
When Ja- -cob graz'd his un- -cle La- -ban's sheep
This Ja- -cob from our holy Abram was
As his wise moth- -er wrought in his be- -half
The third pos- -ses- -sor ay he was the third
And what of him? Did he take in- -ter- -est?
No not take in- -ter- -est not as you would say
Di- -rect- -ly in- -t'rest mark what Ja- -cob did
When La- -ban and him- -self were com- -pro- -mis'd
That all the ean- -lings which were streak'd and pied
Should fall as Ja- -cob's hire the ewes be- -ing rank
In end of au- -tumn turned to the rams
And when the work of gen- -er- -a- -tion was
Be- -tween these wool- -ly breed- -ers in the act
The skil- -ful shep- -herd pil- -l'd me cer- -tain wands
And in the do- -ing of the deed of kind
He stuck them up be- -fore the ful- -some ewes
Who then con- -ceiv- -ing did in ean- -ing time
Fall par- -ti- -- -colour'd lambs and those were Ja- -cob's
This was a way to thrive and he was blest
And thrift is bless- -ing if men steal it not
This was a ven- -ture sir that Ja- -cob serv'd for
A thing not in his pow- -er to bring to pass
But sway'd and fash- -ion'd by the hand of heav- -en
Was this in- -sert- -ed to make in- -ter- -est good?
Or is your gold and sil- -ver ewes and ram- -s?
I can- -not tell I make it breed as fast
But note me signior
[Aside] Mark you this Bas- -sanio
The dev- -il can cite Scrip- -ture for his pur- -pose
An evil soul pro- -duc- -ing holy wit- -ness
Is like a vil- -lain with a smil- -ing cheek
A good- -ly ap- -ple rot- -ten at the heart
O what a good- -ly out- -side false- -hood hath!
Three thou- -sand ducats 'tis a good round sum
Three months from twelve then let me see the rate
Well Shy- -lock shall we be be- -hold- -ing to you?
Signior An- -to- -nio many a time and oft
In the Ri- -al- -to you have rat- -ed me
About my mon- -eys and my us- -ances
Still have I borne it with a pa- -tient shrug
For suf- -f'rance is the badge of all our tribe
You call me mis- -be- -liev- -er cut- -throat dog
And spit up- -on my Jew- -ish gab- -er- -dine
And all for use of that which is mine own
Well then it now ap- -pears you need my help
Go to then you come to me and you say
'Shy- -lock we would have mon- -eys.' You say so
You that did void your rheum up- -on my beard
And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur
Over your thresh- -old mon- -eys is your suit
What should I say to you? Should I not say
'Hath a dog mon- -ey? Is it pos- -si- -ble
A cur can lend three thou- -sand ducat- -s?' Or
Shall I bend low and in a bond- -man's key
With bat- -ed breath and whis- -p'ring hum- -ble- -ness
Say this
'Fair sir you spit on me on Wednes- -day last
You spurn'd me such a day an- -oth- -er time
You cal- -l'd me dog and for these cour- -te- -sies
I'll lend you thus much mon- -eys'?
I am as like to call thee so again
To spit on thee again to spurn thee too
If thou wilt lend this mon- -ey lend it not
As to thy friends for when did friend- -ship take
A breed for bar- -ren met- -al of his friend?
But lend it rather to thine en- -e- -my
Who if he break thou mayst with bet- -ter face
Ex- -act the penal- -ty
Why look you how you stor- -m!
I would be friends with you and have your love
For- -get the shames that you have stain'd me with
Sup- -ply your present wants and take no doit
Of us- -ance for my mon- -eys and you'll not hear me
This is kind I of- -fer
This were kind- -ness
This kind- -ness will I show
Go with me to a no- -tary seal me there
Your sin- -gle bond and in a mer- -ry sport
If you re- -pay me not on such a day
In such a place such sum or sums as are
Ex- -press'd in the con- -di- -tion let the for- -feit
Be nom- -i- -nat- -ed for an equal pound
Of your fair flesh to be cut off and tak- -en
In what part of your body pleaseth me
Con- -tent in faith I'll seal to such a bond
And say there is much kind- -ness in the Jew
You shall not seal to such a bond for me
I'll rather dwell in my ne- -ces- -si- -ty
Why fear not man I will not for- -feit it
With- -in these two months that's a month be- -fore
This bond ex- -pires I do ex- -pect re- -turn
Of thrice three times the val- -ue of this bond
O fa- -ther Abram what these Chris- -tians are
Whose own hard deal- -ings teach- -es them sus- -pect
The thoughts of oth- -er- -s! Pray you tell me this
If he should break his day what should I gain
By the ex- -ac- -tion of the for- -fei- -ture?
A pound of man's flesh tak- -en from a man
Is not so es- -timable prof- -itable nei- -ther
As flesh of mut- -tons beefs or goats I say
To buy his favour I ex- -tend this friend- -ship
If he will take it so if not adieu
And for my love I pray you wrong me not
Yes Shy- -lock I will seal un- -to this bond
Then meet me forth- -with at the no- -tary's
Give him di- -rec- -tion for this mer- -ry bond
And I will go and purse the ducats straight
See to my house left in the fear- -ful guard
Of an un- -thrifty knave and present- -ly
I'll be with you
Hie thee gen- -tle Jew Ex- -it SHY- -LOCK
The He- -brew will turn Chris- -tian he grows kind
I like not fair terms and a vil- -lain's mind
Come on in this there can be no dis- -may
My ships come home a month be- -fore the day Exe- -unt
PRINCE OF Mo- -roc- -co Mis- -like me not for my com- -plex- -ion
The shad- -owed liv- -ery of the bur- -nish'd sun
To whom I am a neigh- -bour and near bred
Bring me the fairest crea- -ture north- -ward born
Where Phoe- -bus' fire scarce thaws the ici- -cles
And let us make in- -ci- -sion for your love
To prove whose blood is red- -dest his or mine
I tell thee la- -dy this as- -pect of mine
Hath fear'd the valiant by my love I swear
The best- -re- -gard- -ed vir- -gins of our clime
Have lov'd it too I would not change this hue
Ex- -cept to steal your thoughts my gen- -tle queen
In terms of choice I am not sole- -ly led
By nice di- -rec- -tion of a maid- -en's eyes
Be- -sides the lot- -t'ry of my des- -tiny
Bars me the right of vol- -un- -tary choos- -ing
But if my fa- -ther had not scant- -ed me
And hedg'd me by his wit to yield my- -self
His wife who wins me by that means I told you
Your- -self renowned Prince then stood as fair
As any com- -er I have look'd on yet
For my af- -fec- -tion
PRINCE OF MO- -ROC- -CO Even for that I thank you
There- -fore I pray you lead me to the cas- -kets
To try my for- -tune By this scim- -i- -tar
That slew the So- -phy and a Per- -sian prince
That won three fields of Sul- -tan Soly- -man
I would o'er- -stare the sternest eyes that look
Out- -brave the heart most dar- -ing on the earth
Pluck the young suck- -ing cubs from the she- -bear
Yea mock the li- -on when 'a roars for prey
To win thee la- -dy But alas the while!
If Her- -cules and Lichas play at dice
Which is the bet- -ter man the greater throw
May turn by for- -tune from the weak- -er band
So is Al- -cides beat- -en by his page
And so may I blind For- -tune lead- -ing me
Miss that which one un- -wor- -thi- -er may at- -tain
And die with griev- -ing
You must take your chance
And ei- -ther not at- -tempt to choose at all
Or swear be- -fore you choose if you choose wrong
Nev- -er to speak to la- -dy af- -ter- -ward
In way of mar- -riage there- -fore be ad- -vis'd
PRINCE OF MO- -ROC- -CO Nor will not come bring me un- -to my chance
First for- -ward to the tem- -ple Af- -ter din- -ner
Your haz- -ard shall be made
PRINCE OF MO- -ROC- -CO Good for- -tune then
To make me blest or cursed'st among men!
Cer- -tain- -ly my con- -science will serve me to run from
Jew my mas- -ter The fiend is at mine el- -bow and tempts me
to me 'Gob- -bo Launcelot Gob- -bo good Launcelot' or 'good
'good Launcelot Gob- -bo use your legs take the start run
My con- -science says 'No take heed hon- -est Launcelot take
hon- -est Gob- -bo' or as afore- -said 'hon- -est Launcelot Gob- -bo do
run scorn run- -ning with thy heel- -s.' Well the most coura- -geous
fiend bids me pack 'Vi- -a!' says the fiend 'away!' says the
fiend 'For the heav- -ens rouse up a brave mind' says the
'and run.' Well my con- -science hang- -ing about the neck of my
heart says very wise- -ly to me 'My hon- -est friend Launcelot
an hon- -est man's son' or rather 'an hon- -est wom- -an's son' for
in- -deed my fa- -ther did some- -thing smack some- -thing grow to he
kind of taste well my con- -science says 'Launcelot budge
'Budge,' says the fiend 'Budge not,' says my con- -science
'Con- -science,' say I (y- -ou coun- -sel well.' 'Fiend,' say I 'y- -ou
coun- -sel well.' To be rul'd by my con- -science I should stay
the Jew my mas- -ter who God bless the mark! is a kind of
and to run away from the Jew I should be ruled by the
who sav- -ing your rev- -er- -ence! is the dev- -il him- -self Cer- -tain- -ly
Jew is the very dev- -il in- -car- -na- -tion and in my con- -science my
con- -science is but a kind of hard con- -science to of- -fer to
me to stay with the Jew The fiend gives the more friend- -ly
coun- -sel I will run fiend my heels are at your com- -mand- -ment
will run
En- -ter OLD GOB- -BO with a bas- -ket
Mas- -ter young man you I pray you which is the way to
mas- -ter Jew- -'s?
[Aside] O heav- -en- -s! This is my true- -be- -got- -ten
who be- -ing more than sand- -blind high- -- -- -grav- -el blind knows me
I will try con- -fu- -sions with him
Mas- -ter young gen- -tle- -man I pray you which is the way to
mas- -ter Jew- -'s?
Turn up on your right hand at the next turn- -ing but
the next turn- -ing of all on your left mar- -ry at the very
turn- -ing turn of no hand but turn down in- -di- -rect- -ly to the
house
Be God's son- -ties 'twill be a hard way to hit! Can you
me whether one Launcelot that dwells with him dwell with
no?
Talk you of young Mas- -ter Launcelot? [Aside] Mark
now now will I raise the wa- -ters Talk you of young Mas- -ter
Launcelot?
No mas- -ter sir but a poor man's son his fa- -ther though
say't is an hon- -est ex- -ceed- -ing poor man and God be thanked
to live
Well let his fa- -ther be what 'a will we talk of
Mas- -ter Launcelot
Your wor- -ship's friend and Launcelot sir
But I pray you er- -go old man er- -go I be- -seech you
you of young Mas- -ter Launcelot?
Of Launcelot an't please your mas- -ter- -ship
Er- -go Mas- -ter Launcelot Talk not of Mas- -ter
fa- -ther for the young gen- -tle- -man ac- -cord- -ing to Fates and
and such odd say- -ings the Sis- -ters Three and such branch- -es of
learn- -ing is in- -deed de- -ceased or as you would say in plain
terms gone to heav- -en
Mar- -ry God for- -bid! The boy was the very staff of my age
very prop
Do I look like a cud- -gel or a hov- -el- -- -post a staff or
prop? Do you know me fa- -ther?
Alack the day I know you not young gen- -tle- -man but I
you tell me is my boy God rest his soul! alive or dead?
Do you not know me fa- -ther?
Alack sir I am sand- -blind I know you not
Nay in- -deed if you had your eyes you might fail of
know- -ing me it is a wise fa- -ther that knows his own child
old man I will tell you news of your son Give me your
truth will come to light mur- -der can- -not be hid long a man's
may but in the end truth will out
Pray you sir stand up I am sure you are not Launcelot
boy
Pray you let's have no more fool- -ing about it but
me your bless- -ing I am Launcelot your boy that was your son
that is your child that shall be
I can- -not think you are my son
I know not what I shall think of that but I am
Launcelot the Jew- -'s man and I am sure Margery your wife is
moth- -er
Her name is Margery in- -deed I'll be sworn if thou be
Launcelot thou art mine own flesh and blood Lord wor- -ship- -p'd
might he be what a beard hast thou got! Thou hast got more
on thy chin than Dob- -bin my fil- -l- -horse has on his tail
It should seem then that Dob- -bin's tail grows
I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face
when I last saw him
Lord how art thou chang'd! How dost thou and thy mas- -ter
agree? I have brought him a present How 'gree you now?
Well well but for mine own part as I have set up
rest to run away so I will not rest till I have run some
My mas- -ter's a very Jew Give him a pre- -sen- -t! Give him a
am fam- -ish'd in his ser- -vice you may tell ev- -ery fin- -ger I have
my ribs Fa- -ther I am glad you are come give me your present
one Mas- -ter Bas- -sanio who in- -deed gives rare new liv- -er- -ies if I
serve not him I will run as far as God has any ground O
for- -tune! Here comes the man To him fa- -ther for I am a Jew
serve the Jew any longer
En- -ter BAS- -SANIO with LEONAR- -DO with a FOL- -LOW- -ER or two
You may do so but let it be so hast- -ed that sup- -per be
ready at the far- -thest by five of the clock See these let- -ters
de- -liv- -ered put the liv- -er- -ies to mak- -ing and de- -sire Gra- -tiano to
come anon to my lodg- -ing Ex- -it a SER- -VANT
To him fa- -ther
God bless your wor- -ship!
Gramer- -cy wouldst thou aught with me?
Here's my son sir a poor boy
Not a poor boy sir but the rich Jew- -'s man that
sir as my fa- -ther shall spec- -i- -fy
He hath a great in- -fec- -tion sir as one would say to
In- -deed the short and the long is I serve the Jew
have a de- -sire as my fa- -ther shall spec- -i- -fy
His mas- -ter and he sav- -ing your wor- -ship's rev- -er- -ence are
scarce cater- -- -cousins
To be brief the very truth is that the Jew hav- -ing
me wrong doth cause me as my fa- -ther be- -ing I hope an old
shall fru- -ti- -fy un- -to you
I have here a dish of doves that I would be- -stow up- -on
wor- -ship and my suit is
In very brief the suit is im- -per- -ti- -nent to my- -self as
your wor- -ship shall know by this hon- -est old man and though I
it though old man yet poor man my fa- -ther
One speak for both What would you?
Serve you sir
That is the very de- -fect of the mat- -ter sir
I know thee well thou hast ob- -tain'd thy suit
Shy- -lock thy mas- -ter spoke with me this day
And hath pre- -fer- -r'd thee if it be prefer- -ment
To leave a rich Jew- -'s ser- -vice to be- -come
The fol- -low- -er of so poor a gen- -tle- -man
The old proverb is very well part- -ed be- -tween my
Shy- -lock and you sir you have the grace of God sir and he
enough
Thou speak'st it well Go fa- -ther with thy son
Take leave of thy old mas- -ter and in- -quire
My lodg- -ing out [To a SER- -VAN- -T] Give him a liv- -ery
More guard- -ed than his fel- -lows' see it done
Fa- -ther in I can- -not get a ser- -vice no! I have ne'er
tongue in my head! [Look- -ing on his palm] Well if any man
Italy have a fair- -er ta- -ble which doth of- -fer to swear up- -on a
shall have good for- -tune Go to here's a sim- -ple line of life
here's a small tri- -fle of wives alas fif- -teen wives is
a'leven wid- -ows and nine maids is a sim- -ple com- -ing- -in for one
And then to scape drown- -ing thrice and to be in per- -il of my
with the edge of a feath- -er- -bed- -here are sim- -ple scapes Well
For- -tune be a wom- -an she's a good wench for this gear Fa- -ther
come I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twin- -kling
Exe- -unt LAUNCELOT and OLD GOB- -BO
I pray thee good Leonar- -do think on this
These things be- -ing bought and or- -der- -ly be- -stowed
Re- -turn in haste for I do feast to- -night
My best es- -teem'd ac- -quain- -tance hie thee go
My best en- -deav- -ours shall be done here- -in
En- -ter GRA- -TIANO
Where's your mas- -ter?
Yon- -der sir he walks Ex- -it
Signior Bas- -san- -io!
Gra- -tiano!
I have suit to you
You have ob- -tain'd it
You must not de- -ny me I must go with you to Bel- -mont
Why then you must But hear thee Gra- -tiano
Thou art too wild too rude and bold of voice
Parts that be- -come thee hap- -pi- -ly enough
And in such eyes as ours ap- -pear not faults
But where thou art not known why there they show
Some- -thing too lib- -er- -al Pray thee take pain
To al- -lay with some cold drops of mod- -esty
Thy skip- -ping spir- -it lest through thy wild be- -hav- -iour
I be mis- -con- -st'red in the place I go to
And lose my hopes
Signior Bas- -sanio hear me
If I do not put on a sober habit
Talk with re- -spect and swear but now and then
Wear prayer- -- -books in my pock- -et look de- -mure- -ly
Nay more while grace is say- -ing hood mine eyes
Thus with my hat and sigh and say amen
Use all the ob- -ser- -vance of ci- -vil- -i- -ty
Like one well stud- -ied in a sad os- -tent
To please his grandam nev- -er trust me more
Well we shall see your bear- -ing
Nay but I bar to- -night you shall not gauge me
By what we do to- -night
No that were pity
I would en- -treat you rather to put on
Your bold- -est suit of mirth for we have friends
That pur- -pose mer- -ri- -ment But fare you well
I have some busi- -ness
And I must to Loren- -zo and the rest
But we will vis- -it you at sup- -per- -- -time Exe- -unt
I am sor- -ry thou wilt leave my fa- -ther so
Our house is hell and thou a mer- -ry dev- -il
Didst rob it of some taste of te- -dious- -ness
But fare thee well there is a ducat for thee
And Launcelot soon at sup- -per shalt thou see
Loren- -zo who is thy new mas- -ter's guest
Give him this let- -ter do it se- -cret- -ly
And so farewell I would not have my fa- -ther
See me in talk with thee
Adieu! tears ex- -hib- -it my tongue Most beau- -ti- -ful
most sweet Jew! If a Chris- -tian do not play the knave and get
thee I am much de- -ceived But adieu! these fool- -ish drops do
some- -thing drown my man- -ly spir- -it adieu!
Farewell good Launcelot Ex- -it LAUNCELOT
Alack what heinous sin is it in me
To be asham'd to be my fa- -ther's child!
But though I am a daugh- -ter to his blood
I am not to his man- -ners O Loren- -zo
If thou keep prom- -ise I shall end this strife
Be- -come a Chris- -tian and thy lov- -ing wife Ex- -it
Nay we will slink away in sup- -per- -time
Dis- -guise us at my lodg- -ing and re- -turn
All in an hour
We have not made good prepa- -ra- -tion
We have not spoke us yet of torch- -bear- -ers
'Tis vile un- -less it may be quaint- -ly or- -dered
And bet- -ter in my mind not un- -der- -took
'Tis now but four o'- -clock we have two hours
To fur- -nish us
En- -ter LAUNCELOT With a let- -ter
Friend Launcelot what's the news?
An it shall please you to break up this it shall
to sig- -ni- -fy
I know the hand in faith 'tis a fair hand
And whiter than the pa- -per it writ on
Is the fair hand that writ
Love- -news in faith!
By your leave sir
Whith- -er goest thou?
Mar- -ry sir to bid my old mas- -ter the Jew to sup
to- -night with my new mas- -ter the Chris- -tian
Hold here take this Tell gen- -tle Jes- -si- -ca
I will not fail her speak it pri- -vate- -ly
Go gen- -tle- -men Ex- -it LAUNCELOT
Will you pre- -pare you for this masque to- -night?
I am pro- -vid- -ed of a torch- -bear- -er
Ay mar- -ry I'll be gone about it straight
And so will I
Meet me and Gra- -tiano
At Gra- -tiano's lodg- -ing some hour hence
'Tis good we do so Exe- -unt SA- -LE- -RIO and SOLANIO
Was not that let- -ter from fair Jes- -si- -ca?
I must needs tell thee all She hath di- -rect- -ed
How I shall take her from her fa- -ther's house
What gold and jew- -els she is fur- -nish'd with
What page's suit she hath in readi- -ness
If e'er the Jew her fa- -ther come to heav- -en
It will be for his gen- -tle daugh- -ter's sake
And nev- -er dare mis- -for- -tune cross her foot
Un- -less she do it un- -der this ex- -cuse
That she is is- -sue to a faith- -less Jew
Come go with me pe- -ruse this as thou goest
Fair Jes- -si- -ca shall be my torch- -bear- -er Exe- -unt
Well thou shalt see thy eyes shall be thy judge
The dif- -fer- -ence of old Shy- -lock and Bas- -sanio
What Jes- -si- -ca! Thou shalt not gor- -man- -dize
As thou hast done with me What Jes- -si- -ca!
And sleep and snore and rend ap- -par- -el out
Why Jes- -si- -ca I say!
Why Jes- -si- -ca!
Who bids thee cal- -l? I do not bid thee call
Your wor- -ship was wont to tell me I could do noth- -ing
with- -out bid- -ding
En- -ter JES- -SI- -CA
Call you? What is your will?
I am bid forth to sup- -per Jes- -si- -ca
There are my keys But where- -fore should I go?
I am not bid for love they flat- -ter me
But yet I'll go in hate to feed up- -on
The prodi- -gal Chris- -tian Jes- -si- -ca my girl
Look to my house I am right loath to go
There is some ill a- -brew- -ing to- -wards my rest
For I did dream of mon- -ey- -bags to- -night
I be- -seech you sir go my young mas- -ter doth ex- -pect
re- -proach
So do I his
And they have con- -spired to- -geth- -er I will not say you
shall see a masque but if you do then it was not for
that my nose fell a- -bleed- -ing on Black Mon- -day last at six
i' th' morn- -ing fall- -ing out that year on Ash Wednes- -day was
year in th' af- -ter- -noon
What are there masques? Hear you me Jes- -si- -ca
Lock up my doors and when you hear the drum
And the vile squeal- -ing of the wry- -- -neck- -'d fife
Clam- -ber not you up to the case- -ments then
Nor thrust your head in- -to the pub- -lic street
To gaze on Chris- -tian fools with var- -nish'd faces
But stop my house- -'s ears I mean my case- -ments
Let not the sound of shal- -low fop- -p'ry en- -ter
My sober house By Ja- -cob's staff I swear
I have no mind of feast- -ing forth to- -night
But I will go Go you be- -fore me sir- -rah
Say I will come
I will go be- -fore sir Mis- -tress look out at win- -dow
all this
There will come a Chris- -tian by
Will be worth a Jew- -ess' eye Ex- -it
What says that fool of Ha- -gar's off- -spring ha?
His words were 'Farewell mis- -tress' noth- -ing else
The patch is kind enough but a huge feed- -er
Snail- -s- -low in prof- -it and he sleeps by day
More than the wild- -- -cat drones hive not with me
There- -fore I part with him and part with him
To one that I would have him help to waste
His bor- -rowed purse Well Jes- -si- -ca go in
Per- -haps I will re- -turn im- -me- -di- -ate- -ly
Do as I bid you shut doors af- -ter you
Fast bind fast find
A proverb nev- -er stale in thrifty mind Ex- -it
Farewell and if my for- -tune be not crost
I have a fa- -ther you a daugh- -ter lost Ex- -it
This is the pen- -t- -- -house un- -der which Loren- -zo
De- -sired us to make stand
His hour is al- -most past
And it is mar- -vel he out- -- -d- -wells his hour
For lovers ev- -er run be- -fore the clock
O ten times faster Venus' pi- -geons fly
To seal love's bonds new made than they are wont
To keep obliged faith un- -for- -feit- -ed!
That ev- -er holds who riseth from a feast
With that keen ap- -petite that he sits down?
Where is the horse that doth un- -tread again
His te- -dious mea- -sures with the un- -bat- -ed fire
That he did pace them first? All things that are
Are with more spir- -it chased than en- -joyed
How like a younker or a prodi- -gal
The scarfed bark puts from her na- -tive bay
Hug- -g'd and em- -braced by the strum- -pet wind
How like the prodi- -gal doth she re- -turn
With over- -weath- -er'd ribs and ragged sails
Lean rent and beg- -gar'd by the strum- -pet wind!
En- -ter LOREN- -ZO
Here comes Loren- -zo more of this here- -after
Sweet friends your pa- -tience for my long abode!
Not I but my af- -fairs have made you wait
When you shall please to play the thieves for wives
I'll watch as long for you then Ap- -proach
Here dwells my fa- -ther Jew Ho! who's with- -in?
En- -ter JES- -SI- -CA above in boy's clothes
Who are you? Tell me for more cer- -tain- -ty
Al- -beit I'll swear that I do know your tongue
Loren- -zo and thy love
Loren- -zo cer- -tain and my love in- -deed
For who love I so much? And now who knows
But you Loren- -zo whether I am yours?
Heav- -en and thy thoughts are wit- -ness that thou art
Here catch this cas- -ket it is worth the pains
I am glad 'tis night you do not look on me
For I am much asham'd of my ex- -change
But love is blind and lovers can- -not see
The pret- -ty fol- -lies that them- -selves com- -mit
For if they could Cu- -pid him- -self would blush
To see me thus trans- -formed to a boy
De- -scend for you must be my torch- -bear- -er
What! must I hold a can- -dle to my shames?
They in them- -selves good sooth are too too light
Why 'tis an of- -fice of dis- -cov- -ery love
And I should be ob- -scur'd
So are you sweet
Even in the love- -ly gar- -nish of a boy
But come at once
For the close night doth play the run- -away
And we are stay'd for at Bas- -san- -io's feast
I will make fast the doors and gild my- -self
With some moe ducats and be with you straight
Ex- -it above
Now by my hood a gen- -tle and no Jew
Beshrew me but I love her hearti- -ly
For she is wise if I can judge of her
And fair she is if that mine eyes be true
And true she is as she hath prov'd her- -self
And there- -fore like her- -self wise fair and true
Shall she be placed in my con- -stant soul
En- -ter JES- -SI- -CA be- -low
What art thou come? On gen- -tle- -men away
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay
Ex- -it with JES- -SI- -CA and SA- -LE- -RIO
En- -ter AN- -TO- -NIO
Who's there?
Signior An- -to- -nio?
Fie fie Gra- -tiano where are all the rest?
'Tis nine o'- -clock our friends all stay for you
No masque to- -night the wind is come about
Bas- -sanio present- -ly will go aboard
I have sent twen- -ty out to seek for you
I am glad on't I de- -sire no more de- -light
Than to be un- -der sail and gone to- -night Exe- -unt
Go draw aside the cur- -tains and dis- -cov- -er
The sev- -er- -al cas- -kets to this no- -ble Prince
Now make your choice
PRINCE OF MO- -ROC- -CO The first of gold who this in- -scrip- -tion
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men de- -sire.'
The sec- -ond sil- -ver which this prom- -ise car- -ries
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he de- -serves.'
This third dull lead with warn- -ing all as blunt
'Who chooseth me must give and haz- -ard all he hath.'
How shall I know if I do choose the right?
The one of them con- -tains my pic- -ture Prince
If you choose that then I am yours with- -al
PRINCE OF MO- -ROC- -CO Some god di- -rect my judg- -men- -t! Let me see
I will sur- -vey th' in- -scrip- -tions back again
What says this lead- -en cas- -ket?
'Who chooseth me must give and haz- -ard all he hath.'
Must give for what? For lead? Haz- -ard for lead!
This cas- -ket threat- -ens men that haz- -ard all
Do it in hope of fair ad- -van- -tages
A gold- -en mind stoops not to shows of dross
I'll then nor give nor haz- -ard aught for lead
What says the sil- -ver with her vir- -gin hue?
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he de- -serves.'
As much as he de- -serves! Pause there Mo- -roc- -co
And weigh thy val- -ue with an even hand
If thou beest rat- -ed by thy es- -ti- -ma- -tion
Thou dost de- -serve enough and yet enough
May not ex- -tend so far as to the la- -dy
And yet to be afeard of my de- -serv- -ing
Were but a weak dis- -abling of my- -self
As much as I de- -serve? Why that's the la- -dy!
I do in birth de- -serve her and in for- -tunes
In graces and in qual- -i- -ties of breed- -ing
But more than these in love I do de- -serve
What if I stray'd no far- -ther but chose here?
Let's see once more this say- -ing grav'd in gold
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men de- -sire.'
Why that's the la- -dy! All the world de- -sires her
From the four cor- -ners of the earth they come
To kiss this shrine this mor- -tal- -breath- -ing saint
The Hyr- -ca- -ni- -an deserts and the vasty wilds
Of wide Ara- -bia are as through- -fares now
For princes to come view fair Por- -tia
The wa- -tery king- -dom whose am- -bi- -tious head
Spits in the face of heav- -en is no bar
To stop the for- -eign spir- -its but they come
As o'er a brook to see fair Por- -tia
One of these three con- -tains her heav- -en- -ly pic- -ture
Is't like that lead con- -tains her? 'Twere damna- -tion
To think so base a thought it were too gross
To rib her cere- -cloth in the ob- -scure grave
Or shall I think in sil- -ver she's im- -mur'd
Be- -ing ten times un- -der- -val- -ued to tried gold?
O sin- -ful thought! Nev- -er so rich a gem
Was set in worse than gold They have in Eng- -land
A coin that bears the fig- -ure of an an- -gel
Stam- -p'd in gold but that's in- -sculp'd up- -on
But here an an- -gel in a gold- -en bed
Lies all with- -in De- -liv- -er me the key
Here do I choose and thrive I as I may!
There take it Prince and if my form lie there
PRINCE OF MO- -ROC- -CO O hel- -l! what have we here?
A car- -rion Death with- -in whose emp- -ty eye
There is a writ- -ten scrol- -l! I'll read the writ- -ing
'All that glis- -ters is not gold
Of- -ten have you heard that told
Many a man his life hath sold
But my out- -side to be- -hold
Gild- -ed tombs do worms in- -fold
Had you been as wise as bold
Young in limbs in judg- -ment old
Your an- -swer had not been in- -scrol- -l'd
Fare you well your suit is cold.'
Cold in- -deed and labour lost
Then farewell heat and wel- -come frost
Por- -tia adieu! I have too griev'd a heart
To take a te- -dious leave thus losers part
Ex- -it with his train Flour- -ish of cor- -nets
A gen- -tle rid- -dance Draw the cur- -tains go
Let all of his com- -plex- -ion choose me so Exe- -unt
Why man I saw Bas- -sanio un- -der sail
With him is Gra- -tiano gone along
And in their ship I am sure Loren- -zo is not
The vil- -lain Jew with out- -cries rais'd the Duke
Who went with him to search Bas- -san- -io's ship
He came too late the ship was un- -der sail
But there the Duke was giv- -en to un- -der- -stand
That in a gon- -do- -la were seen to- -geth- -er
Loren- -zo and his amorous Jes- -si- -ca
Be- -sides An- -to- -nio cer- -ti- -fied the Duke
They were not with Bas- -sanio in his ship
I nev- -er heard a pas- -sion so con- -fus'd
So strange out- -ra- -geous and so vari- -able
As the dog Jew did ut- -ter in the streets
'My daugh- -ter! O my ducat- -s! O my daugh- -ter!
Fled with a Chris- -tian! O my Chris- -tian ducat- -s!
Jus- -tice! the law! My ducats and my daugh- -ter!
A sealed bag two sealed bags of ducats
Of dou- -ble ducats stol'n from me by my daugh- -ter!
And jew- -els two stones two rich and pre- -cious stones
Stol'n by my daugh- -ter! Jus- -tice! Find the girl
She hath the stones up- -on her and the ducat- -s.'
Why all the boys in Venice fol- -low him
Cry- -ing his stones his daugh- -ter and his ducats
Let good An- -to- -nio look he keep his day
Or he shall pay for this
Mar- -ry well re- -mem- -b'red
I rea- -son'd with a French- -man yes- -ter- -day
Who told me in the nar- -row seas that part
The French and Eng- -lish there mis- -car- -ried
A ves- -sel of our coun- -try rich- -ly fraught
I thought up- -on An- -to- -nio when he told me
And wish'd in si- -lence that it were not his
You were best to tell An- -to- -nio what you hear
Yet do not sud- -den- -ly for it may grieve him
A kinder gen- -tle- -man treads not the earth
I saw Bas- -sanio and An- -to- -nio part
Bas- -sanio told him he would make some speed
Of his re- -turn He an- -swered 'Do not so
Slub- -ber not busi- -ness for my sake Bas- -sanio
But stay the very rip- -ing of the time
And for the Jew- -'s bond which he hath of me
Let it not en- -ter in your mind of love
Be mer- -ry and em- -ploy your chiefest thoughts
To courtship and such fair os- -tents of love
As shall con- -ve- -nient- -ly be- -come you there.'
And even there his eye be- -ing big with tears
Turn- -ing his face he put his hand be- -hind him
And with af- -fec- -tion won- -drous sen- -si- -ble
He wrung Bas- -san- -io's hand and so they part- -ed
I think he on- -ly loves the world for him
I pray thee let us go and find him out
And quick- -en his em- -braced heav- -i- -ness
With some de- -light or oth- -er
Do we so Exe- -unt
Quick quick I pray thee draw the cur- -tain straight
The Prince of Ar- -ragon hath ta'en his oath
And comes to his elec- -tion present- -ly
Flour- -ish of cor- -nets En- -ter the PRINCE OF AR- -RAGON
POR- -TIA and their trains
Be- -hold there stand the cas- -kets no- -ble Prince
If you choose that where- -in I am con- -tain'd
Straight shall our nup- -tial rites be sol- -em- -niz'd
But if you fail with- -out more speech my lord
You must be gone from hence im- -me- -di- -ate- -ly
I am en- -join'd by oath to ob- -serve three things
First nev- -er to un- -fold to any one
Which cas- -ket 't- -was I chose next if I fail
Of the right cas- -ket nev- -er in my life
To woo a maid in way of mar- -riage
Last- -ly
If I do fail in for- -tune of my choice
Im- -me- -di- -ate- -ly to leave you and be gone
To these in- -junc- -tions ev- -ery one doth swear
That comes to haz- -ard for my worth- -less self
And so have I ad- -dress'd me For- -tune now
To my heart's hope! Gold sil- -ver and base lead
'Who chooseth me must give and haz- -ard all he hath.'
You shall look fair- -er ere I give or haz- -ard
What says the gold- -en chest? Ha! let me see
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men de- -sire.'
What many men de- -sire that 'many' may be meant
By the fool mul- -ti- -tude that choose by show
Not learn- -ing more than the fond eye doth teach
Which pries not to th' in- -te- -ri- -or but like the mart- -let
Builds in the weath- -er on the out- -ward wall
Even in the force and road of ca- -su- -al- -ty
I will not choose what many men de- -sire
Be- -cause I will not jump with com- -mon spir- -its
And rank me with the bar- -barous mul- -ti- -tudes
Why then to thee thou sil- -ver trea- -sure- -- -house!
Tell me once more what ti- -tle thou dost bear
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he de- -serves.'
And well said too for who shall go about
To coz- -en for- -tune and be hon- -ourable
With- -out the stamp of mer- -it? Let none pre- -sume
To wear an un- -de- -served dig- -ni- -ty
O that es- -tates de- -grees and of- -fices
Were not de- -riv'd cor- -rupt- -ly and that clear hon- -our
Were pur- -chas'd by the mer- -it of the wear- -er!
How many then should cov- -er that stand bare!
How many be com- -mand- -ed that com- -mand!
How much low peas- -antry would then be gleaned
From the true seed of hon- -our! and how much hon- -our
Pick- -'d from the chaff and ru- -in of the times
To be new var- -nish'd! Well but to my choice
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he de- -serves.'
I will as- -sume desert Give me a key for this
And in- -stant- -ly un- -lock my for- -tunes here
[Aside] Too long a pause for that which you find
What's here? The por- -trait of a blink- -ing id- -iot
Pre- -sent- -ing me a sched- -ule! I will read it
How much un- -like art thou to Por- -ti- -a!
How much un- -like my hopes and my de- -serv- -ings!
'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he de- -serves.'
Did I de- -serve no more than a fool's head?
Is that my prize? Are my deserts no bet- -ter?
To of- -fend and judge are dis- -tinct of- -fices
And of op- -posed na- -tures
'The fire sev- -en times tried this
Sev- -en times tried that judg- -ment is
That did nev- -er choose amiss
Some there be that shad- -ows kiss
Such have but a shad- -ow's bliss
There be fools alive iwis
Sil- -ver'd o'er and so was this
Take what wife you will to bed
I will ev- -er be your head
So be gone you are sped.'
Still more fool I shall ap- -pear
By the time I linger here
With one fool's head I came to woo
But I go away with two
Sweet adieu! I'll keep my oath
Pa- -tient- -ly to bear my wroth Ex- -it with his train
Thus hath the can- -dle sing'd the moth
O these de- -lib- -er- -ate fool- -s! When they do choose
They have the wis- -dom by their wit to lose
The an- -cient say- -ing is no heresy
Hang- -ing and wiv- -ing goes by des- -tiny
Come draw the cur- -tain Ner- -is- -sa
En- -ter a SER- -VANT
Where is my la- -dy?
Here what would my lord?
Madam there is alight- -ed at your gate
A young Vene- -tian one that comes be- -fore
To sig- -ni- -fy th' ap- -proach- -ing of his lord
From whom he bringeth sen- -si- -ble re- -greets
To wit be- -sides com- -mends and cour- -te- -ous breath
Gifts of rich val- -ue Yet I have not seen
So like- -ly an am- -bas- -sador of love
A day in April nev- -er came so sweet
To show how cost- -ly sum- -mer was at hand
As this fore- -spurrer comes be- -fore his lord
No more I pray thee I am half afeard
Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee
Thou spend'st such high- -- -- -day wit in prais- -ing him
Come come Ner- -is- -sa for I long to see
Quick Cu- -pid's post that comes so man- -ner- -ly
Bas- -sanio Lord Love if thy will it be! Exe- -unt
Now what news on the Ri- -al- -to?
Why yet it lives there uncheck- -'d that An- -to- -nio hath a
of rich lad- -ing wreck- -'d on the nar- -row seas the Good- -wins I
they call the place a very dan- -ger- -ous flat and fa- -tal where
car- -cas- -es of many a tall ship lie buried as they say if my
gos- -sip Re- -port be an hon- -est wom- -an of her word
I would she were as ly- -ing a gos- -sip in that as ev- -er
gin- -ger or made her neigh- -bours be- -lieve she wept for the death
third hus- -band But it is true with- -out any slips of pro- -lix- -i- -ty
cross- -ing the plain high- -way of talk that the good An- -to- -nio
hon- -est An- -to- -nio O that I had a ti- -tle good enough to keep his
com- -pa- -ny!
Come the full stop
Ha! What sayest thou? Why the end is he hath lost a
ship
I would it might prove the end of his loss- -es
Let me say amen be- -times lest the dev- -il cross my
for here he comes in the like- -ness of a Jew
En- -ter SHY- -LOCK
How now Shy- -lock? What news among the mer- -chants?
You knew none so well none so well as you of my
daugh- -ter's flight
That's cer- -tain I for my part knew the tai- -lor that
the wings she flew with- -al
And Shy- -lock for his own part knew the bird was
and then it is the com- -plex- -ion of them all to leave the dam
She is damn'd for it
That's cer- -tain if the dev- -il may be her judge
My own flesh and blood to re- -bel!
Out up- -on it old car- -rion! Rebels it at these years?
I say my daugh- -ter is my flesh and my blood
There is more dif- -fer- -ence be- -tween thy flesh and hers
be- -tween jet and ivory more be- -tween your bloods than there is
be- -tween red wine and Rhen- -ish But tell us do you hear
An- -to- -nio have had any loss at sea or no?
There I have an- -oth- -er bad match a bank- -rupt a
who dare scarce show his head on the Ri- -al- -to a beg- -gar that
us'd to come so smug up- -on the mart Let him look to his bond
was wont to call me usurer let him look to his bond He was
to lend mon- -ey for a Chris- -tian cour- -tesy let him look to his
Why I am sure if he for- -feit thou wilt not take his
flesh What's that good for?
To bait fish with- -al If it will feed noth- -ing else it
feed my re- -venge He hath dis- -grac'd me and hind'red me half a
mil- -lion laugh- -'d at my loss- -es mock- -'d at my gains scorned my
na- -tion thwart- -ed my bar- -gains cooled my friends heat- -ed mine
en- -e- -mies And what's his rea- -son? I am a Jew Hath not a Jew
Hath not a Jew hands or- -gans di- -men- -sions sens- -es af- -fec- -tions
pas- -sions fed with the same food hurt with the same weapons
sub- -ject to the same dis- -eases healed by the same means
and cooled by the same win- -ter and sum- -mer as a Chris- -tian is?
you prick us do we not bleed? If you tick- -le us do we not
If you poi- -son us do we not die? And if you wrong us shall
not re- -venge? If we are like you in the rest we will re- -sem- -ble
in that If a Jew wrong a Chris- -tian what is his hu- -mil- -i- -ty?
Re- -venge If a Chris- -tian wrong a Jew what should his
be by Chris- -tian ex- -am- -ple? Why re- -venge The vil- -lainy you teach
I will ex- -e- -cute and it- -shall go hard but I will bet- -ter the
in- -struc- -tion
En- -ter a MAN from AN- -TO- -NIO
Gen- -tle- -men my mas- -ter An- -to- -nio is at his house and de- -sires
speak with you both
We have been up and down to seek him
En- -ter TUBAL
Here comes an- -oth- -er of the tribe a third can- -not be
match'd un- -less the dev- -il him- -self turn Jew
Exe- -unt SOLANIO SA- -LE- -RIO and MAN
How now Tubal what news from Genoa? Hast thou found
daugh- -ter?
I of- -ten came where I did hear of her but can- -not find
Why there there there there! A di- -a- -mond gone cost
two thou- -sand ducats in Frank- -fort! The curse nev- -er fell up- -on
na- -tion till now I nev- -er felt it till now Two thou- -sand
that and oth- -er pre- -cious pre- -cious jew- -els I would my
were dead at my foot and the jew- -els in her ear would she
hears'd at my foot and the ducats in her coffin! No news of
them? Why so and I know not what's spent in the search
thou loss up- -on loss! The thief gone with so much and so
find the thief and no sat- -is- -fac- -tion no re- -venge nor no ill
stir- -ring but what lights o' my shoul- -ders no sighs but o' my
breath- -ing no tears but o' my shed- -ding!
Yes oth- -er men have ill luck too An- -to- -nio as I heard in
Genoa
What what what? Ill luck ill luck?
Hath an ar- -gosy cast away com- -ing from Tripo- -lis
I thank God I thank God Is it true is it true?
I spoke with some of the sailors that es- -caped the wreck
I thank thee good Tubal Good news good news ha
heard in Genoa
Your daugh- -ter spent in Genoa as I heard one night
fourscore ducats
Thou stick- -'st a dag- -ger in me I shall nev- -er see my
again Fourscore ducats at a sit- -ting! Fourscore ducat- -s!
There came divers of An- -to- -nio's cred- -i- -tors in my com- -pa- -ny
Venice that swear he can- -not choose but break
I am very glad of it I'll plague him I'll tor- -ture
am glad of it
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your
for a mon- -key
Out up- -on her! Thou tor- -turest me Tubal It was my
turquoise I had it of Leah when I was a bach- -e- -lor I would
have giv- -en it for a wilder- -ness of mon- -keys
But An- -to- -nio is cer- -tain- -ly un- -done
Nay that's true that's very true Go Tubal fee me
of- -fi- -cer be- -speak him a fort- -night be- -fore I will have the
him if he for- -feit for were he out of Venice I can make
mer- -chan- -dise I will Go Tubal and meet me at our syn- -a- -gogue
good Tubal at our syn- -a- -gogue Tubal Exe- -unt
I pray you tar- -ry pause a day or two
Be- -fore you haz- -ard for in choos- -ing wrong
I lose your com- -pa- -ny there- -fore for- -bear a while
There's some- -thing tells me but it is not love
I would not lose you and you know your- -self
Hate coun- -sels not in such a qual- -i- -ty
But lest you should not un- -der- -stand me well
And yet a maid- -en hath no tongue but thought
I would de- -tain you here some month or two
Be- -fore you ven- -ture for me I could teach you
How to choose right but then I am for- -sworn
So will I nev- -er be so may you miss me
But if you do you'll make me wish a sin
That I had been for- -sworn Beshrew your eye- -s!
They have o'er- -look'd me and di- -vid- -ed me
One half of me is yours the oth- -er half yours
Mine own I would say but if mine then yours
And so all yours O! these naughty times
Puts bars be- -tween the own- -ers and their rights
And so though yours not yours Prove it so
Let for- -tune go to hell for it not I
I speak too long but 'tis to peize the time
To eke it and to draw it out in length
To stay you from elec- -tion
Let me choose
For as I am I live up- -on the rack
Up- -on the rack Bas- -san- -io? Then con- -fess
What trea- -son there is min- -gled with your love
None but that ug- -ly trea- -son of mis- -trust
Which makes me fear th' en- -joy- -ing of my love
There may as well be ami- -ty and life
'Tween snow and fire as trea- -son and my love
Ay but I fear you speak up- -on the rack
Where men en- -forced do speak any- -thing
Prom- -ise me life and I'll con- -fess the truth
Well then con- -fess and live
'Con- -fess' and 'love'
Had been the very sum of my con- -fes- -sion
O hap- -py tor- -ment when my tor- -tur- -er
Doth teach me an- -swers for de- -liv- -er- -ance!
But let me to my for- -tune and the cas- -kets
Away then I am lock- -'d in one of them
If you do love me you will find me out
Ner- -is- -sa and the rest stand all aloof
Let mu- -sic sound while he doth make his choice
Then if he lose he makes a swan- -- -like end
Fad- -ing in mu- -sic That the com- -par- -i- -son
May stand more prop- -er my eye shall be the stream
And wat'ry death- -bed for him He may win
And what is mu- -sic then? Then mu- -sic is
Even as the flour- -ish when true sub- -jects bow
To a new- -crowned monarch such it is
As are those dul- -cet sounds in break of day
That creep in- -to the dream- -ing bride- -groom's ear
And sum- -mon him to mar- -riage Now he goes
With no less pres- -ence but with much more love
Than young Al- -cides when he did re- -deem
The vir- -gin trib- -ute paid by howl- -ing Troy
To the sea- -- -mon- -ster I stand for sac- -ri- -fice
The rest aloof are the Dar- -d- -a- -ni- -an wives
With bleared vis- -ages come forth to view
The is- -sue of th' ex- -ploit Go Her- -cules!
Live thou I live With much much more dis- -may
I view the fight than thou that mak'st the fray
A SONG
the whilst BAS- -SANIO com- -ments on the cas- -kets to him- -self
Tell me where is fan- -cy bred
Or in the heart or in the head
How be- -got how nour- -ished?
Re- -ply re- -ply
It is en- -gend'red in the eyes
With gaz- -ing fed and fan- -cy dies
In the cra- -dle where it lies
Let us all ring fan- -cy's knell
I'll be- -gin it Ding dong bell
Ding dong bell
So may the out- -ward shows be least them- -selves
The world is still de- -ceiv'd with or- -na- -ment
In law what plea so taint- -ed and cor- -rupt
But be- -ing sea- -son'd with a gra- -cious voice
Ob- -scures the show of evil? In re- -li- -gion
What damned er- -ror but some sober brow
Will bless it and ap- -prove it with a text
Hid- -ing the gross- -ness with fair or- -na- -men- -t?
There is no vice so sim- -ple but as- -sumes
Some mark of virtue on his out- -ward parts
How many cow- -ards whose hearts are all as false
As stairs of sand wear yet up- -on their chins
The beards of Her- -cules and frown- -ing Mars
Who in- -ward search'd have liv- -ers white as milk!
And these as- -sume but val- -our's ex- -cre- -ment
To ren- -der them re- -doubt- -ed Look on beau- -ty
And you shall see 'tis pur- -chas'd by the weight
Which there- -in works a mir- -a- -cle in na- -ture
Mak- -ing them light- -est that wear most of it
So are those crisped snaky gold- -en locks
Which make such wan- -ton gam- -bols with the wind
Up- -on sup- -posed fair- -ness of- -ten known
To be the dowry of a sec- -ond head
The skull that bred them in the sepul- -chre
Thus or- -na- -ment is but the guiled shore
To a most dan- -ger- -ous sea the beau- -teous scarf
Veil- -ing an In- -di- -an beau- -ty in a word
The seem- -ing truth which cun- -ning times put on
To en- -trap the wis- -est There- -fore thou gaudy gold
Hard food for Mi- -das I will none of thee
Nor none of thee thou pale and com- -mon drudge
'Tween man and man but thou thou mea- -gre lead
Which rather threat- -en'st than dost prom- -ise aught
Thy plain- -ness moves me more than elo- -quence
And here choose I Joy be the con- -se- -quence!
[Aside] How all the oth- -er pas- -sions fleet to air
As doubt- -ful thoughts and rash- -em- -brac'd de- -spair
And shud- -d'ring fear and green- -ey'd jeal- -ousy!
O love be mod- -er- -ate al- -lay thy ec- -sta- -sy
In mea- -sure rain thy joy scant this ex- -cess!
I feel too much thy bless- -ing Make it less
For fear I sur- -feit
[Open- -ing the lead- -en cas- -ket] What find I here?
Fair Por- -ti- -a's coun- -ter- -feit! What demi- -- -god
Hath come so near cre- -ation? Move these eye- -s?
Or whether rid- -ing on the balls of mine
Seem they in mo- -tion? Here are sev- -er'd lips
Part- -ed with sug- -ar breath so sweet a bar
Should sun- -der such sweet friends Here in her hairs
The painter plays the spi- -der and hath wo- -ven
A gold- -en mesh t' en- -trap the hearts of men
Faster than gnats in cob- -webs But her eyes
How could he see to do them? Hav- -ing made one
Me- -thinks it should have pow- -er to steal both his
And leave it- -self un- -fur- -nish'd Yet look how far
The sub- -stance of my praise doth wrong this shad- -ow
In un- -der- -priz- -ing it so far this shad- -ow
Doth limp be- -hind the sub- -stance Here's the scroll
The con- -ti- -nent and sum- -ma- -ry of my for- -tune
'Y- -ou that choose not by the view
Chance as fair and choose as true!
Since this for- -tune falls to you
Be con- -tent and seek no new
If you be well pleas'd with this
And hold your for- -tune for your bliss
Turn to where your la- -dy is
And claim her with a lov- -ing kiss.'
A gen- -tle scroll Fair la- -dy by your leave
I come by note to give and to re- -ceive
Like one of two con- -tend- -ing in a prize
That thinks he hath done well in peo- -ple's eyes
Hear- -ing ap- -plause and uni- -ver- -sal shout
Gid- -dy in spir- -it still gaz- -ing in a doubt
Whether those peals of praise be his or no
So thrice- -- -fair la- -dy stand I even so
As doubt- -ful whether what I see be true
Un- -til con- -fir- -m'd sign'd rat- -i- -fied by you
You see me Lord Bas- -sanio where I stand
Such as I am Though for my- -self alone
I would not be am- -bi- -tious in my wish
To wish my- -self much bet- -ter yet for you
I would be tre- -bled twen- -ty times my- -self
A thou- -sand times more fair ten thou- -sand times more rich
That on- -ly to stand high in your ac- -count
I might in virtues beau- -ties liv- -ings friends
Ex- -ceed ac- -count But the full sum of me
Is sum of some- -thing which to term in gross
Is an un- -lesson'd girl un- -school'd un- -prac- -tis'd
Hap- -py in this she is not yet so old
But she may learn hap- -pi- -er than this
She is not bred so dull but she can learn
Hap- -pi- -est of all is that her gen- -tle spir- -it
Com- -mits it- -self to yours to be di- -rect- -ed
As from her lord her gov- -er- -nor her king
My- -self and what is mine to you and yours
Is now con- -vert- -ed But now I was the lord
Of this fair man- -sion mas- -ter of my ser- -vants
Queen o'er my- -self and even now but now
This house these ser- -vants and this same my- -self
Are yours my lord's I give them with this ring
Which when you part from lose or give away
Let it presage the ru- -in of your love
And be my van- -tage to ex- -claim on you
Madam you have bereft me of all words
On- -ly my blood speaks to you in my veins
And there is such con- -fu- -sion in my pow- -ers
As af- -ter some ora- -tion fair- -ly spoke
By a beloved prince there doth ap- -pear
Among the buzzing pleased mul- -ti- -tude
Where ev- -ery some- -thing be- -ing blent to- -geth- -er
Turns to a wild of noth- -ing save of joy
Ex- -press'd and not ex- -press'd But when this ring
Parts from this fin- -ger then parts life from hence
O then be bold to say Bas- -san- -io's dead!
My lord and la- -dy it is now our time
That have stood by and seen our wish- -es pros- -per
To cry 'Good joy.' Good joy my lord and la- -dy!
My Lord Bas- -sanio and my gen- -tle la- -dy
I wish you all the joy that you can wish
For I am sure you can wish none from me
And when your hon- -ours mean to sol- -em- -nize
The bar- -gain of your faith I do be- -seech you
Even at that time I may be mar- -ried too
With all my heart so thou canst get a wife
I thank your lord- -ship you have got me one
My eyes my lord can look as swift as yours
You saw the mis- -tress I be- -held the maid
You lov'd I lov'd for in- -ter- -mis- -sion
No more per- -tains to me my lord than you
Your for- -tune stood up- -on the cas- -kets there
And so did mine too as the mat- -ter falls
For woo- -ing here un- -til I sweat again
And swear- -ing till my very roof was dry
With oaths of love at last if prom- -ise last
I got a prom- -ise of this fair one here
To have her love pro- -vid- -ed that your for- -tune
Achiev'd her mis- -tress
Is this true Ner- -is- -sa?
Madam it is so you stand pleas'd with- -al
And do you Gra- -tiano mean good faith?
Yes faith my lord
Our feast shall be much hon- -oured in your mar- -riage
We'll play with them the first boy for a thou- -sand
ducats
What and stake down?
No we shall ne'er win at that sport and stake down
But who comes here? Loren- -zo and his in- -fi- -del?
What and my old Vene- -tian friend Sa- -le- -ri- -o!
En- -ter LOREN- -ZO JES- -SI- -CA and SA- -LE- -RIO a mes- -sen- -ger
from Venice
Loren- -zo and Sa- -le- -rio wel- -come hith- -er
If that the youth of my new in- -t'rest here
Have pow- -er to bid you wel- -come By your leave
I bid my very friends and coun- -try- -men
Sweet Por- -tia wel- -come
So do I my lord
They are en- -tire- -ly wel- -come
I thank your hon- -our For my part my lord
My pur- -pose was not to have seen you here
But meet- -ing with Sa- -le- -rio by the way
He did en- -treat me past all say- -ing nay
To come with him along
I did my lord
And I have rea- -son for it Signior An- -to- -nio
Ere I ope his let- -ter
I pray you tell me how my good friend doth
Not sick my lord un- -less it be in mind
Nor well un- -less in mind his let- -ter there
Ner- -is- -sa cheer yond stranger bid her wel- -come
Your hand Sa- -le- -rio What's the news from Venice?
How doth that roy- -al mer- -chant good An- -to- -nio?
I know he will be glad of our suc- -cess
We are the Ja- -sons we have won the fleece
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost
There are some shrewd con- -tents in yond same pa- -per
That steals the colour from Bas- -san- -io's cheek
Some dear friend dead else noth- -ing in the world
Could turn so much the con- -sti- -tu- -tion
Of any con- -stant man What worse and worse!
With leave Bas- -sanio I am half your- -self
And I must freely have the half of any- -thing
That this same pa- -per brings you
O sweet Por- -tia
Here are a few of the un- -pleas- -an- -t'st words
That ev- -er blot- -ted pa- -per! Gen- -tle la- -dy
When I did first im- -part my love to you
I freely told you all the wealth I had
Ran in my veins I was a gen- -tle- -man
And then I told you true And yet dear la- -dy
Rat- -ing my- -self at noth- -ing you shall see
How much I was a brag- -gart When I told you
My state was noth- -ing I should then have told you
That I was worse than noth- -ing for in- -deed
I have en- -gag'd my- -self to a dear friend
En- -gag'd my friend to his mere en- -e- -my
To feed my means Here is a let- -ter la- -dy
The pa- -per as the body of my friend
And ev- -ery word in it a gap- -ing wound
Is- -su- -ing life- -blood But is it true Sa- -le- -ri- -o?
Hath all his ven- -tures fail'd? What not one hit?
From Tripo- -lis from Mex- -i- -co and Eng- -land
From Lis- -bon Bar- -bary and In- -dia
And not one ves- -sel scape the dread- -ful touch
Of mer- -chan- -t- -- -mar- -ring rock- -s?
Not one my lord
Be- -sides it should ap- -pear that if he had
The present mon- -ey to dis- -charge the Jew
He would not take it Nev- -er did I know
A crea- -ture that did bear the shape of man
So keen and greedy to con- -found a man
He plies the Duke at morn- -ing and at night
And doth im- -peach the free- -dom of the state
If they de- -ny him jus- -tice Twen- -ty mer- -chants
The Duke him- -self and the mag- -nifi- -coes
Of great- -est port have all per- -suad- -ed with him
But none can drive him from the en- -vi- -ous plea
Of for- -fei- -ture of jus- -tice and his bond
When I was with him I have heard him swear
To Tubal and to Chus his coun- -try- -men
That he would rather have An- -to- -nio's flesh
Than twen- -ty times the val- -ue of the sum
That he did owe him and I know my lord
If law au- -thor- -i- -ty and pow- -er de- -ny not
It will go hard with poor An- -to- -nio
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trou- -ble?
The dear- -est friend to me the kind- -est man
The best con- -di- -tion'd and un- -wea- -ried spir- -it
In do- -ing cour- -te- -sies and one in whom
The an- -cient Ro- -man hon- -our more ap- -pears
Than any that draws breath in Italy
What sum owes he the Jew?
For me three thou- -sand ducats
What! no more?
Pay him six thou- -sand and de- -face the bond
Dou- -ble six thou- -sand and then tre- -ble that
Be- -fore a friend of this de- -scrip- -tion
Shall lose a hair through Bas- -san- -io's fault
First go with me to church and call me wife
And then away to Venice to your friend
For nev- -er shall you lie by Por- -ti- -a's side
With an un- -qui- -et soul You shall have gold
To pay the pet- -ty debt twen- -ty times over
When it is paid bring your true friend along
My maid Ner- -is- -sa and my- -self mean- -time
Will live as maids and wid- -ows Come away
For you shall hence up- -on your wed- -ding day
Bid your friends wel- -come show a mer- -ry cheer
Since you are dear bought I will love you dear
But let me hear the let- -ter of your friend
[Read- -s] 'Sweet Bas- -sanio my ships have all
my cred- -i- -tors grow cru- -el my es- -tate is very low my bond to
Jew is for- -feit and since in pay- -ing it it is im- -pos- -si- -ble I
should live all debts are clear'd be- -tween you and I if I
but see you at my death Not- -with- -stand- -ing use your plea- -sure
your love do not per- -suade you to come let not my let- -ter.'
O love dis- -patch all busi- -ness and be gone!
Since I have your good leave to go away
I will make haste but till I come again
No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay
Nor rest be in- -ter- -pos- -er 'twixt us twain Exe- -unt
Gaol- -er look to him Tell not me of mer- -cy
This is the fool that lent out mon- -ey gratis
Gaol- -er look to him
Hear me yet good Shy- -lock
I'll have my bond speak not against my bond
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond
Thou cal- -l'dst me dog be- -fore thou hadst a cause
But since I am a dog be- -ware my fangs
The Duke shall grant me jus- -tice I do won- -der
Thou naughty gaol- -er that thou art so fond
To come abroad with him at his re- -quest
I pray thee hear me speak
I'll have my bond I will not hear thee speak
I'll have my bond and there- -fore speak no more
I'll not be made a soft and dul- -l- -ey'd fool
To shake the head re- -lent and sigh and yield
To Chris- -tian in- -ter- -ces- -sors Fol- -low not
I'll have no speak- -ing I will have my bond Ex- -it
It is the most im- -pen- -e- -tra- -ble cur
That ev- -er kept with men
Let him alone
I'll fol- -low him no more with boot- -less prayers
He seeks my life his rea- -son well I know
I oft de- -liv- -er'd from his for- -fei- -tures
Many that have at times made moan to me
There- -fore he hates me
I am sure the Duke
Will nev- -er grant this for- -fei- -ture to hold
The Duke can- -not de- -ny the course of law
For the com- -mod- -i- -ty that strangers have
With us in Venice if it be de- -nied
Will much im- -peach the jus- -tice of the state
Since that the trade and prof- -it of the city
Con- -sis- -teth of all na- -tions There- -fore go
These griefs and loss- -es have so bat- -ed me
That I shall hard- -ly spare a pound of flesh
To- -- -mor- -row to my bloody cred- -i- -tor
Well gaol- -er on pray God Bas- -sanio come
To see me pay his debt and then I care not Exe- -unt
Madam al- -though I speak it in your pres- -ence
You have a no- -ble and a true con- -ceit
Of god- -like ami- -ty which ap- -pears most strong- -ly
In bear- -ing thus the ab- -sence of your lord
But if you knew to whom you show this hon- -our
How true a gen- -tle- -man you send re- -lief
How dear a lover of my lord your hus- -band
I know you would be proud- -er of the work
Than cus- -tom- -ary boun- -ty can en- -force you
I nev- -er did re- -pent for do- -ing good
Nor shall not now for in com- -pan- -ions
That do con- -verse and waste the time to- -geth- -er
Whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love
There must be needs a like pro- -por- -tion
Of lin- -ea- -ments of man- -ners and of spir- -it
Which makes me think that this An- -to- -nio
Be- -ing the bo- -som lover of my lord
Must needs be like my lord If it be so
How lit- -tle is the cost I have be- -stowed
In pur- -chas- -ing the sem- -blance of my soul
From out the state of hellish cru- -el- -ty!
This comes too near the prais- -ing of my- -self
There- -fore no more of it hear oth- -er things
Loren- -zo I com- -mit in- -to your hands
The hus- -bandry and man- -age of my house
Un- -til my lord's re- -turn for mine own part
I have to- -ward heav- -en breath'd a se- -cret vow
To live in prayer and con- -tem- -pla- -tion
On- -ly at- -tend- -ed by Ner- -is- -sa here
Un- -til her hus- -band and my lord's re- -turn
There is a monastery two miles off
And there we will abide I do de- -sire you
Not to de- -ny this im- -po- -si- -tion
The which my love and some ne- -ces- -si- -ty
Now lays up- -on you
Madam with all my heart
I shall obey you in an fair com- -mands
My peo- -ple do al- -ready know my mind
And will ac- -knowl- -edge you and Jes- -si- -ca
In place of Lord Bas- -sanio and my- -self
So fare you well till we shall meet again
Fair thoughts and hap- -py hours at- -tend on you!
I wish your la- -dy- -ship all heart's con- -tent
I thank you for your wish and am well pleas'd
To wish it back on you Fare you well Jes- -si- -ca
Exe- -unt JES- -SI- -CA and LOREN- -ZO
Now Balthasar
As I have ev- -er found thee hon- -est- -true
So let me find thee still Take this same let- -ter
And use thou all th' en- -deav- -our of a man
In speed to Pad- -ua see thou ren- -der this
In- -to my cous- -in's hands Doc- -tor Bel- -lario
And look what notes and gar- -ments he doth give thee
Bring them I pray thee with imag- -in'd speed
Un- -to the tra- -ject to the com- -mon fer- -ry
Which trades to Venice Waste no time in words
But get thee gone I shall be there be- -fore thee
Madam I go with all con- -ve- -nient speed Ex- -it
Come on Ner- -is- -sa I have work in hand
That you yet know not of we'll see our hus- -bands
Be- -fore they think of us
Shall they see us?
They shall Ner- -is- -sa but in such a habit
That they shall think we are ac- -com- -plished
With that we lack I'll hold thee any wa- -ger
When we are both ac- -cou- -tred like young men
I'll prove the pret- -ti- -er fel- -low of the two
And wear my dag- -ger with the braver grace
And speak be- -tween the change of man and boy
With a reed voice and turn two minc- -ing steps
In- -to a man- -ly stride and speak of frays
Like a fine brag- -ging youth and tell quaint lies
How hon- -ourable ladies sought my love
Which I deny- -ing they fell sick and died
I could not do with- -al Then I'll re- -pent
And wish for all that that I had not kil- -l'd them
And twen- -ty of these puny lies I'll tell
That men shall swear I have dis- -con- -tin- -ued school
About a twelve- -month I have with- -in my mind
A thou- -sand raw tricks of these brag- -ging Jacks
Which I will prac- -tise
Why shall we turn to men?
Fie what a ques- -tion's that
If thou wert near a lewd in- -ter- -preter!
But come I'll tell thee all my whole de- -vice
When I am in my coach which stays for us
At the park gate and there- -fore haste away
For we must mea- -sure twen- -ty miles to- -- -day Exe- -unt
Yes tru- -ly for look you the sins of the fa- -ther
be laid up- -on the chil- -dren there- -fore I prom- -ise you I fear
I was al- -ways plain with you and so now I speak my ag- -i- -ta- -tion
the mat- -ter there- -fore be o' good cheer for tru- -ly I think you
damn'd There is but one hope in it that can do you any good
that is but a kind of bas- -tard hope nei- -ther
And what hope is that I pray thee?
Mar- -ry you may part- -ly hope that your fa- -ther got you
that you are not the Jew- -'s daugh- -ter
That were a kind of bas- -tard hope in- -deed so the sins
moth- -er should be vis- -it- -ed up- -on me
Tru- -ly then I fear you are damn'd both by fa- -ther and
moth- -er thus when I shun Scyl- -la your fa- -ther I fall in- -to
Charyb- -dis your moth- -er well you are gone both ways
I shall be sav'd by my hus- -band he hath made me a
Chris- -tian
Tru- -ly the more to blame he we were Chris- -tians enow
be- -fore e'en as many as could well live one by an- -oth- -er This
mak- -ing of Chris- -tians will raise the price of hogs if we grow
to be pork- -eaters we shall not short- -ly have a rash- -er on the
coals for mon- -ey
En- -ter LOREN- -ZO
I'll tell my hus- -band Launcelot what you say here he
comes
I shall grow jeal- -ous of you short- -ly Launcelot if you
thus get my wife in- -to cor- -ners
Nay you need nor fear us Loren- -zo Launcelot and I
out he tells me flat- -ly there's no mer- -cy for me in heav- -en
be- -cause I am a Jew- -'s daugh- -ter and he says you are no good
of the com- -mon- -wealth for in con- -vert- -ing Jews to Chris- -tians you
raise the price of pork
I shall an- -swer that bet- -ter to the com- -mon- -wealth than
can the get- -ting up of the ne- -gro's bel- -ly the Moor is with
by you Launcelot
It is much that the Moor should be more than rea- -son
if she be less than an hon- -est wom- -an she is in- -deed more than
took her for
How ev- -ery fool can play up- -on the word! I think the
grace of wit will short- -ly turn in- -to si- -lence and dis- -course
com- -mend- -able in none on- -ly but par- -rots Go in sir- -rah bid them
pre- -pare for din- -ner
That is done sir they have all stom- -achs
Good- -ly Lord what a wit- -s- -nap- -per are you! Then bid them
pre- -pare din- -ner
That is done too sir on- -ly 'cov- -er' is the word
Will you cov- -er then sir?
Not so sir nei- -ther I know my du- -ty
Yet more quar- -relling with oc- -ca- -sion! Wilt thou show the
whole wealth of thy wit in an in- -stan- -t? I pray thee un- -der- -stand
plain man in his plain mean- -ing go to thy fel- -lows bid them
the ta- -ble serve in the meat and we will come in to din- -ner
For the ta- -ble sir it shall be serv'd in for the
sir it shall be cov- -er'd for your com- -ing in to din- -ner sir
let it be as hu- -mours and con- -ceits shall gov- -ern
Ex- -it
O dear dis- -cre- -tion how his words are suit- -ed!
The fool hath plant- -ed in his mem- -o- -ry
An army of good words and I do know
A many fools that stand in bet- -ter place
Gar- -nish'd like him that for a tricksy word
De- -fy the mat- -ter How cheer'st thou Jes- -si- -ca?
And now good sweet say thy opin- -ion
How dost thou like the Lord Bas- -san- -io's wife?
Past all ex- -press- -ing It is very meet
The Lord Bas- -sanio live an up- -right life
For hav- -ing such a bless- -ing in his la- -dy
He finds the joys of heav- -en here on earth
And if on earth he do not mer- -it it
In rea- -son he should nev- -er come to heav- -en
Why if two gods should play some heav- -en- -ly match
And on the wa- -ger lay two earth- -ly wom- -en
And Por- -tia one there must be some- -thing else
Pawn'd with the oth- -er for the poor rude world
Hath not her fel- -low
Even such a hus- -band
Hast thou of me as she is for a wife
Nay but ask my opin- -ion too of that
I will anon first let us go to din- -ner
Nay let me praise you while I have a stom- -ach
No pray thee let it serve for table- -talk
Then how- -some'er thou speak'st 'mong oth- -er things
I shall di- -gest it
Well I'll set you forth Exe- -unt
DUKE OF VENICE What is An- -to- -nio here?
Ready so please your Grace
DUKE OF VENICE I am sor- -ry for thee thou art come to an- -swer
A stony ad- -ver- -sary an in- -hu- -man wretch
Un- -ca- -pable of pity void and emp- -ty
From any dram of mer- -cy
I have heard
Your Grace hath ta'en great pains to qual- -i- -fy
His rig- -or- -ous course but since he stands ob- -du- -rate
And that no law- -ful means can car- -ry me
Out of his en- -vy's reach I do op- -pose
My pa- -tience to his fury and am ar- -m'd
To suf- -fer with a quiet- -ness of spir- -it
The very tyran- -ny and rage of his
DUKE OF VENICE Go one and call the Jew in- -to the court
He is ready at the door he comes my lord
En- -ter SHY- -LOCK
DUKE OF VENICE Make room and let him stand be- -fore our face
Shy- -lock the world thinks and I think so too
That thou but lead- -est this fash- -ion of thy mal- -ice
To the last hour of act and then 'tis thought
Thou'lt show thy mer- -cy and re- -morse more strange
Than is thy strange ap- -par- -ent cru- -el- -ty
And where thou now ex- -acts the penal- -ty
Which is a pound of this poor mer- -chan- -t's flesh
Thou wilt not on- -ly loose the for- -fei- -ture
But touch'd with hu- -man gen- -tle- -ness and love
For- -give a moi- -ety of the prin- -ci- -pal
Glanc- -ing an eye of pity on his loss- -es
That have of late so hud- -dled on his back
Enow to press a roy- -al mer- -chant down
And pluck com- -mis- -er- -a- -tion of his state
From brassy bo- -soms and rough hearts of flint
From stub- -born Turks and Tar- -tars nev- -er train'd
To of- -fices of ten- -der cour- -tesy
We all ex- -pect a gen- -tle an- -swer Jew
I have pos- -sess'd your Grace of what I pur- -pose
And by our holy Sab- -bath have I sworn
To have the due and for- -feit of my bond
If you de- -ny it let the dan- -ger light
Up- -on your char- -ter and your city's free- -dom
You'll ask me why I rather choose to have
A weight of car- -rion flesh than to re- -ceive
Three thou- -sand ducats I'll not an- -swer that
But say it is my hu- -mour is it an- -swer'd?
What if my house be trou- -bled with a rat
And I be pleas'd to give ten thou- -sand ducats
To have it ban'd? What are you an- -swer'd yet?
Some men there are love not a gap- -ing pig
Some that are mad if they be- -hold a cat
And oth- -ers when the bag- -pipe sings i' th' nose
Can- -not con- -tain their urine for af- -fec- -tion
Mis- -tress of pas- -sion sways it to the mood
Of what it likes or loathes Now for your an- -swer
As there is no firm rea- -son to be rend'red
Why he can- -not abide a gap- -ing pig
Why he a harm- -less nec- -es- -sary cat
Why he a woollen bag- -pipe but of force
Must yield to such in- -evitable shame
As to of- -fend him- -self be- -ing of- -fend- -ed
So can I give no rea- -son nor I will not
More than a lodg'd hate and a cer- -tain loathing
I bear An- -to- -nio that I fol- -low thus
A los- -ing suit against him Are you an- -swered?
This is no an- -swer thou un- -feel- -ing man
To ex- -cuse the cur- -rent of thy cru- -el- -ty
I am not bound to please thee with my an- -swers
Do all men kill the things they do not love?
Hates any man the thing he would not kil- -l?
Ev- -ery of- -fence is not a hate at first
What wouldst thou have a ser- -pent sting thee twice?
I pray you think you ques- -tion with the Jew
You may as well go stand up- -on the beach
And bid the main flood bate his usu- -al height
You may as well use ques- -tion with the wolf
Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb
You may as well for- -bid the moun- -tain pines
To wag their high tops and to make no noise
When they are fret- -ten with the gusts of heav- -en
You may as well do any- -thing most hard
As seek to soft- -en that than which what's hard- -er?
His jew- -ish heart There- -fore I do be- -seech you
Make no moe of- -fers use no far- -ther means
But with all brief and plain con- -ve- -nien- -cy
Let me have judg- -ment and the Jew his will
For thy three thou- -sand ducats here is six
If ev- -ery ducat in six thou- -sand ducats
Were in six parts and ev- -ery part a ducat
I would not draw them I would have my bond
DUKE OF VENICE How shalt thou hope for mer- -cy rend'ring none?
What judg- -ment shall I dread do- -ing no wrong?
You have among you many a pur- -chas'd slave
Which fike your ass- -es and your dogs and mules
You use in ab- -ject and in slav- -ish parts
Be- -cause you bought them shall I say to you
'Let them be free mar- -ry them to your heirs
Why sweat they un- -der bur- -den- -s? let their beds
Be made as soft as yours and let their palates
Be sea- -son'd with such viand- -s'? You will an- -swer
'The slaves are ours.' So do I an- -swer you
The pound of flesh which I de- -mand of him
Is dear- -ly bought 'tis mine and I will have it
If you de- -ny me fie up- -on your law!
There is no force in the de- -crees of Venice
I stand for judg- -ment an- -swer shall I have it?
DUKE OF VENICE Up- -on my pow- -er I may dis- -miss this court
Un- -less Bel- -lario a learned doc- -tor
Whom I have sent for to de- -ter- -mine this
Come here to- -- -day
My lord here stays with- -out
A mes- -sen- -ger with let- -ters from the doc- -tor
New come from Pad- -ua
DUKE OF VENICE Bring us the let- -ters call the mes- -sen- -ger
Good cheer An- -to- -nio! What man courage yet!
The Jew shall have my flesh blood bones and all
Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood
I am a taint- -ed wether of the flock
Meetest for death the weak- -est kind of fruit
Drops ear- -li- -est to the ground and so let me
You can- -not bet- -ter be em- -ploy'd Bas- -sanio
Than to live still and write mine epi- -taph
En- -ter NER- -IS- -SA dressed like a lawyer's clerk
DUKE OF VENICE Came you from Pad- -ua from Bel- -lar- -i- -o?
From both my lord Bel- -lario greets your Grace
Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnest- -ly?
To cut the for- -fei- -ture from that bank- -rupt there
Not on thy sole but on thy soul harsh Jew
Thou mak'st thy knife keen but no met- -al can
No not the hang- -man's axe bear half the keen- -ness
Of thy sharp en- -vy Can no prayers pierce thee?
No none that thou hast wit enough to make
O be thou damn'd in- -ex- -e- -crable dog!
And for thy life let jus- -tice be ac- -cus'd
Thou al- -most mak'st me wa- -ver in my faith
To hold opin- -ion with Pythago- -ras
That souls of an- -i- -mals in- -fuse them- -selves
In- -to the trunks of men Thy cur- -rish spir- -it
Gov- -ern'd a wolf who hang'd for hu- -man slaugh- -ter
Even from the gal- -lows did his fell soul fleet
And whilst thou layest in thy un- -hal- -lowed dam
In- -fus'd it- -self in thee for thy de- -sires
Are wolfish bloody starv'd and rav- -en- -ous
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond
Thou but of- -fend'st thy lungs to speak so loud
Re- -pair thy wit good youth or it will fall
To cure- -less ru- -in I stand here for law
DUKE OF VENICE This let- -ter from Bel- -lario doth com- -mend
A young and learned doc- -tor to our court
Where is he?
He at- -ten- -deth here hard by
To know your an- -swer whether you'll ad- -mit him
DUKE OF VENICE With all my heart Some three or four of you
Go give him cour- -te- -ous con- -duct to this place
Mean- -time the court shall hear Bel- -lar- -i- -o's let- -ter
[Read- -s] 'Y- -our Grace shall un- -der- -stand that at the
of your let- -ter I am very sick but in the in- -stant that your
mes- -sen- -ger came in lov- -ing vis- -i- -ta- -tion was with me a young
of Rome his name is Balt- -haz- -ar I ac- -quaint- -ed him with the
in con- -tro- -ver- -sy be- -tween the Jew and An- -to- -nio the mer- -chant we
turn'd o'er many books to- -geth- -er he is fur- -nished with my
which bet- -tered with his own learn- -ing- -the great- -ness where- -of I
can- -not enough com- -mend comes with him at my im- -por- -tu- -ni- -ty to
up your Grace's re- -quest in my stead I be- -seech you let his
of years be no im- -ped- -i- -ment to let him lack a rev- -erend
for I nev- -er knew so young a body with so old a head I leave
to your gra- -cious ac- -cep- -tance whose tri- -al shall bet- -ter pub- -lish
com- -men- -da- -tion.'
En- -ter POR- -TIA for BALT- -HAZ- -AR dressed like a Doc- -tor of Laws
DUKE OF VENICE YOU hear the learn'd Bel- -lario what he writes
And here I take it is the doc- -tor come
Give me your hand come you from old Bel- -lar- -i- -o?
I did my lord
DUKE OF VENICE You are wel- -come take your place
Are you ac- -quaint- -ed with the dif- -fer- -ence
That holds this present ques- -tion in the court?
I am in- -formed through- -ly of the cause
Which is the mer- -chant here and which the Jew?
DUKE OF VENICE An- -to- -nio and old Shy- -lock both stand forth
Is your name Shy- -lock?
Shy- -lock is my name
Of a strange na- -ture is the suit you fol- -low
Yet in such rule that the Vene- -tian law
Can- -not im- -pugn you as you do pro- -ceed
You stand with- -in his dan- -ger do you not?
Ay so he says
Do you con- -fess the bond?
I do
Then must the Jew be mer- -ci- -ful
On what com- -pul- -sion must I? Tell me that
The qual- -i- -ty of mer- -cy is not strain'd
It drop- -peth as the gen- -tle rain from heav- -en
Up- -on the place be- -neath It is twice blest
It bles- -seth him that gives and him that takes
'Tis might- -i- -est in the might- -i- -est it be- -comes
The throned monarch bet- -ter than his crown
His scep- -tre shows the force of tem- -po- -ral pow- -er
The at- -tribute to awe and majesty
Where- -in doth sit the dread and fear of kings
But mer- -cy is above this scep- -tred sway
It is en- -throned in the hearts of kings
It is an at- -tribute to God him- -self
And earth- -ly pow- -er doth then show lik- -est God's
When mer- -cy sea- -sons jus- -tice There- -fore Jew
Though jus- -tice be thy plea con- -sid- -er this
That in the course of jus- -tice none of us
Should see sal- -va- -tion we do pray for mer- -cy
And that same prayer doth teach us all to ren- -der
The deeds of mer- -cy I have spoke thus much
To mit- -i- -gate the jus- -tice of thy plea
Which if thou fol- -low this strict court of Venice
Must needs give sen- -tence 'gainst the mer- -chant there
My deeds up- -on my head! I crave the law
The penal- -ty and for- -feit of my bond
Yes here I ten- -der it for him in the court
Yea twice the sum if that will not suf- -fice
I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er
On for- -feit of my hands my head my heart
If this will not suf- -fice it must ap- -pear
That mal- -ice bears down truth And I be- -seech you
Wrest once the law to your au- -thor- -i- -ty
To do a great right do a lit- -tle wrong
And curb this cru- -el dev- -il of his will
It must not be there is no pow- -er in Venice
Can al- -ter a de- -cree es- -tab- -lished
'Twill be record- -ed for a prece- -dent
And many an er- -ror by the same ex- -am- -ple
Will rush in- -to the state it can- -not be
A Daniel come to judg- -men- -t! Yea a Daniel!
O wise young judge how I do hon- -our thee!
I pray you let me look up- -on the bond
Here 'tis most rev- -erend Doc- -tor here it is
Shy- -lock there's thrice thy mon- -ey of- -f'red thee
An oath an oath! I have an oath in heav- -en
Shall I lay per- -jury up- -on my soul?
No not for Venice
Why this bond is for- -feit
And law- -ful- -ly by this the Jew may claim
A pound of flesh to be by him cut off
Near- -est the mer- -chan- -t's heart Be mer- -ci- -ful
Take thrice thy mon- -ey bid me tear the bond
When it is paid ac- -cord- -ing to the tenour
It doth ap- -pear you are a wor- -thy judge
You know the law your ex- -po- -si- -tion
Hath been most sound I charge you by the law
Where- -of you are a well- -de- -serv- -ing pil- -lar
Pro- -ceed to judg- -ment By my soul I swear
There is no pow- -er in the tongue of man
To al- -ter me I stay here on my bond
Most hearti- -ly I do be- -seech the court
To give the judg- -ment
Why then thus it is
You must pre- -pare your bo- -som for his knife
O no- -ble judge! O ex- -cel- -lent young man!
For the in- -tent and pur- -pose of the law
Hath full re- -la- -tion to the penal- -ty
Which here ap- -peareth due up- -on the bond
'Tis very true O wise and up- -right judge
How much more el- -der art thou than thy look- -s!
There- -fore lay bare your bo- -som
Ay his breast
So says the bond doth it not no- -ble judge?
'N- -ear- -est his heart,' those are the very words
It is so Are there bal- -ance here to weigh
The flesh?
I have them ready
Have by some sur- -geon Shy- -lock on your charge
To stop his wounds lest he do bleed to death
Is it so nom- -i- -nat- -ed in the bond?
It is not so ex- -press'd but what of that?
'Twere good you do so much for char- -i- -ty
I can- -not find it 'tis not in the bond
You mer- -chant have you any- -thing to say?
But lit- -tle I am ar- -m'd and well prepar'd
Give me your hand Bas- -sanio fare you well
Grieve not that I am fal- -l'n to this for you
For here- -in For- -tune shows her- -self more kind
Than is her cus- -tom It is still her use
To let the wretch- -ed man out- -live his wealth
To view with hol- -low eye and wrin- -kled brow
An age of pover- -ty from which ling'ring penance
Of such mis- -ery doth she cut me off
Com- -mend me to your hon- -ourable wife
Tell her the process of An- -to- -nio's end
Say how I lov'd you speak me fair in death
And when the tale is told bid her be judge
Whether Bas- -sanio had not once a love
Re- -pent but you that you shall lose your friend
And he re- -pents not that he pays your debt
For if the Jew do cut but deep enough
I'll pay it in- -stant- -ly with all my heart
An- -to- -nio I am mar- -ried to a wife
Which is as dear to me as life it- -self
But life it- -self my wife and all the world
Are not with me es- -teem'd above thy life
I would lose all ay sac- -ri- -fice them all
Here to this dev- -il to de- -liv- -er you
Your wife would give you lit- -tle thanks for that
If she were by to hear you make the of- -fer
I have a wife who I protest I love
I would she were in heav- -en so she could
En- -treat some pow- -er to change this cur- -rish Jew
'Tis well you of- -fer it be- -hind her back
The wish would make else an un- -qui- -et house
[Aside] These be the Chris- -tian hus- -band- -s! I have a
daugh- -ter
Would any of the stock of Barrabas
Had been her hus- -band rather than a Chris- -tian!
We tri- -fle time I pray thee pur- -sue sen- -tence
A pound of that same mer- -chan- -t's flesh is thine
The court awards it and the law doth give it
Most right- -ful judge!
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast
The law al- -lows it and the court awards it
Most learned judge! A sen- -tence! Come pre- -pare
Tar- -ry a lit- -tle there is some- -thing else
This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood
The words ex- -press- -ly are 'a pound of flesh.'
Take then thy bond take thou thy pound of flesh
But in the cut- -ting it if thou dost shed
One drop of Chris- -tian blood thy lands and goods
Are by the laws of Venice con- -fis- -cate
Un- -to the state of Venice
O up- -right judge! Mark Jew O learned judge!
Is that the law?
Thy- -self shalt see the act
For as thou urgest jus- -tice be as- -sur'd
Thou shalt have jus- -tice more than thou de- -sir'st
O learned judge! Mark Jew A learned judge!
I take this of- -fer then pay the bond thrice
And let the Chris- -tian go
Here is the mon- -ey
Soft!
The Jew shall have all jus- -tice Soft! No haste
He shall have noth- -ing but the penal- -ty
O Jew! an up- -right judge a learned judge!
There- -fore pre- -pare thee to cut off the flesh
Shed thou no blood nor cut thou less nor more
But just a pound of flesh if thou tak'st more
Or less than a just pound be it but so much
As makes it light or heavy in the sub- -stance
Or the di- -vi- -sion of the twen- -ti- -eth part
Of one poor scru- -ple nay if the scale do turn
But in the es- -ti- -ma- -tion of a hair
Thou di- -est and all thy goods are con- -fis- -cate
A sec- -ond Daniel a Daniel Jew!
Now in- -fi- -del I have you on the hip
Why doth the Jew pause? Take thy for- -fei- -ture
Give me my prin- -ci- -pal and let me go
I have it ready for thee here it is
He hath re- -fus'd it in the open court
He shall have mere- -ly jus- -tice and his bond
A Daniel still say I a sec- -ond Daniel!
I thank thee Jew for teach- -ing me that word
Shall I not have bare- -ly my prin- -ci- -pal?
Thou shalt have noth- -ing but the for- -fei- -ture
To be so tak- -en at thy per- -il Jew
Why then the dev- -il give him good of it!
I'll stay no longer ques- -tion
Tar- -ry Jew
The law hath yet an- -oth- -er hold on you
It is en- -act- -ed in the laws of Venice
If it be proved against an alien
That by di- -rect or in- -di- -rect at- -tempts
He seek the life of any cit- -i- -zen
The par- -ty 'gainst the which he doth con- -trive
Shall seize one half his goods the oth- -er half
Comes to the privy cof- -fer of the state
And the of- -fend- -er's life lies in the mer- -cy
Of the Duke on- -ly 'gainst all oth- -er voice
In which predica- -ment I say thou stand'st
For it ap- -pears by man- -i- -fest pro- -ceed- -ing
That in- -di- -rect- -ly and di- -rect- -ly too
Thou hast con- -trived against the very life
Of the de- -fen- -dant and thou hast in- -cur- -r'd
The dan- -ger for- -mer- -ly by me re- -hears'd
Down there- -fore and beg mer- -cy of the Duke
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thy- -self
And yet thy wealth be- -ing for- -feit to the state
Thou hast not left the val- -ue of a cord
There- -fore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge
DUKE OF VENICE That thou shalt see the dif- -fer- -ence of our
I par- -don thee thy life be- -fore thou ask it
For half thy wealth it is An- -to- -nio's
The oth- -er half comes to the gen- -er- -al state
Which hum- -ble- -ness may drive un- -to a fine
Ay for the state not for An- -to- -nio
Nay take my life and all par- -don not that
You take my house when you do take the prop
That doth sus- -tain my house you take my life
When you do take the means where- -by I live
What mer- -cy can you ren- -der him An- -to- -nio?
A hal- -ter gratis noth- -ing else for God's sake!
So please my lord the Duke and all the court
To quit the fine for one half of his goods
I am con- -tent so he will let me have
The oth- -er half in use to ren- -der it
Up- -on his death un- -to the gen- -tle- -man
That late- -ly stole his daugh- -ter
Two things pro- -vid- -ed more that for this favour
He present- -ly be- -come a Chris- -tian
The oth- -er that he do record a gift
Here in the court of all he dies pos- -sess'd
Un- -to his son Loren- -zo and his daugh- -ter
DUKE OF VENICE He shall do this or else I do re- -cant
The par- -don that I late pro- -nounced here
Art thou con- -tent- -ed Jew? What dost thou say?
I am con- -tent
Clerk draw a deed of gift
I pray you give me leave to go from hence
I am not well send the deed af- -ter me
And I will sign it
DUKE OF VENICE Get thee gone but do it
In christ'n- -ing shalt thou have two god- -- -fa- -thers
Had I been judge thou shouldst have had ten more
To bring thee to the gal- -lows not to the font
Ex- -it SHY- -LOCK
DUKE OF VENICE Sir I en- -treat you home with me to din- -ner
I humbly do de- -sire your Grace of par- -don
I must away this night to- -ward Pad- -ua
And it is meet I present- -ly set forth
DUKE OF VENICE I am sor- -ry that your leisure serves you not
An- -to- -nio grat- -i- -fy this gen- -tle- -man
For in my mind you are much bound to him
Exe- -unt DUKE MAG- -NIFI- -COES and train
Most wor- -thy gen- -tle- -man I and my friend
Have by your wis- -dom been this day ac- -quit- -ted
Of griev- -ous penal- -ties in lieu where- -of
Three thou- -sand ducats due un- -to the Jew
We freely cope your cour- -te- -ous pains with- -al
And stand in- -debt- -ed over and above
In love and ser- -vice to you ev- -er- -more
He is well paid that is well sat- -is- -fied
And I de- -liv- -er- -ing you am sat- -is- -fied
And there- -in do ac- -count my- -self well paid
My mind was nev- -er yet more mer- -ce- -nary
I pray you know me when we meet again
I wish you well and so I take my leave
Dear sir of force I must at- -tempt you fur- -ther
Take some re- -mem- -brance of us as a trib- -ute
Not as fee Grant me two things I pray you
Not to de- -ny me and to par- -don me
You press me far and there- -fore I will yield
[To AN- -TO- -NIO] Give me your gloves I'll wear them for your
[To BAS- -SAN- -IO] And for your love I'll take this ring from
Do not draw back your hand I'll take no more
And you in love shall not de- -ny me this
This ring good sir alas it is a tri- -fle
I will not shame my- -self to give you this
I will have noth- -ing else but on- -ly this
And now me- -thinks I have a mind to it
There's more de- -pends on this than on the val- -ue
The dear- -est ring in Venice will I give you
And find it out by procla- -ma- -tion
On- -ly for this I pray you par- -don me
I see sir you are lib- -er- -al in of- -fers
You taught me first to beg and now me- -thinks
You teach me how a beg- -gar should be an- -swer'd
Good sir this ring was giv- -en me by my wife
And when she put it on she made me vow
That I should nei- -ther sell nor give nor lose it
That 's- -cuse serves many men to save their gifts
And if your wife be not a mad wom- -an
And know how well I have de- -serv'd this ring
She would not hold out en- -e- -my for ev- -er
For giv- -ing it to me Well peace be with you!
Exe- -unt POR- -TIA and NER- -IS- -SA
My Lord Bas- -sanio let him have the ring
Let his de- -serv- -ings and my love with- -al
Be val- -ued 'gainst your wife's com- -mand- -ment
Go Gra- -tiano run and over- -take him
Give him the ring and bring him if thou canst
Un- -to An- -to- -nio's house Away make haste Ex- -it GRA- -TIANO
Come you and I will thith- -er present- -ly
And in the morn- -ing ear- -ly will we both
Fly to- -ward Bel- -mont Come An- -to- -nio Exe- -unt
In- -quire the Jew- -'s house out give him this deed
And let him sign it we'll away tonight
And be a day be- -fore our hus- -bands home
This deed will be well wel- -come to Loren- -zo
En- -ter GRA- -TIANO
Fair sir you are well o'er- -ta'en
My Lord Bas- -sanio up- -on more ad- -vice
Hath sent you here this ring and doth en- -treat
Your com- -pa- -ny at din- -ner
That can- -not be
His ring I do ac- -cept most thank- -ful- -ly
And so I pray you tell him Fur- -ther- -more
I pray you show my youth old Shy- -lock- -'s house
That will I do
Sir I would speak with you
[A- -side to POR- -TI- -A] I'll See if I can get my hus- -band's ring
Which I did make him swear to keep for ev- -er
[To NER- -IS- -SA] Thou Mayst I war- -rant We shall have old
swear- -ing
That they did give the rings away to men
But we'll out- -face them and outswear them too
[Aloud] Away make haste thou know'st where I will tar- -ry
Come good sir will you show me to this house?
Exe- -unt
The moon shines bright In such a night as this
When the sweet wind did gen- -tly kiss the trees
And they did make no noise in such a night
Troilus me- -thinks mount- -ed the Troy- -an walls
And sigh'd his soul to- -ward the Gre- -cian tents
Where Cres- -sid lay that night
In such a night
Did This- -by fear- -ful- -ly o'er- -trip the dew
And saw the li- -on's shad- -ow ere him- -self
And ran dis- -mayed away
In such a night
Stood Di- -do with a wil- -low in her hand
Up- -on the wild sea- -banks and waft her love
To come again to Carthage
In such a night
Medea gath- -ered the en- -chant- -ed herbs
That did re- -new old AE- -son
In such a night
Did Jes- -si- -ca steal from the wealthy Jew
And with an un- -thrift love did run from Venice
As far as Bel- -mont
In such a night
Did young Loren- -zo swear he lov'd her well
Steal- -ing her soul with many vows of faith
And ne'er a true one
In such a night
Did pret- -ty Jes- -si- -ca like a lit- -tle shrew
Slan- -der her love and he for- -gave it her
I would out- -- -night you did no body come
But hark I hear the foot- -ing of a man
En- -ter STEPHANO
Who comes so fast in si- -lence of the night?
A friend
A friend! What friend? Your name I pray you friend?
Stephano is my name and I bring word
My mis- -tress will be- -fore the break of day
Be here at Bel- -mont she doth stray about
By holy cross- -es where she kneels and prays
For hap- -py wed- -lock hours
Who comes with her?
None but a holy her- -mit and her maid
I pray you is my mas- -ter yet re- -turn'd?
He is not nor we have not heard from him
But go we in I pray thee Jes- -si- -ca
And cer- -e- -mo- -ni- -ous- -ly let us pre- -pare
Some wel- -come for the mis- -tress of the house
En- -ter LAUNCELOT
So- -la so- -la! wo ha ho! so- -la so- -la!
Who call- -s?
So- -la! Did you see Mas- -ter Loren- -zo? Mas- -ter Loren- -zo!
so- -la!
Leave hol- -loaing man Here!
So- -la! Where where?
Here!
Tell him there's a post come from my mas- -ter with his
horn full of good news my mas- -ter will be here ere morn- -ing
Ex- -it
Sweet soul let's in and there ex- -pect their com- -ing
And yet no mat- -ter why should we go in?
My friend Stephano sig- -ni- -fy I pray you
With- -in the house your mis- -tress is at hand
And bring your mu- -sic forth in- -to the air Ex- -it STEPHANO
How sweet the moon- -light sleeps up- -on this bank!
Here will we sit and let the sounds of mu- -sic
Creep in our ears soft still- -ness and the night
Be- -come the touch- -es of sweet har- -mo- -ny
Sit Jes- -si- -ca Look how the floor of heav- -en
Is thick in- -laid with patines of bright gold
There's not the small- -est orb which thou be- -hold'st
But in his mo- -tion like an an- -gel sings
Still quir- -ing to the young- -ey'd cheru- -bins
Such har- -mo- -ny is in im- -mor- -tal souls
But whilst this mud- -dy ves- -ture of de- -cay
Doth gross- -ly close it in we can- -not hear it
En- -ter MU- -SI- -CIANS
Come ho and wake Di- -ana with a hymn
With sweet- -est touch- -es pierce your mis- -tress' ear
I am nev- -er mer- -ry when I hear sweet mu- -sic
The rea- -son is your spir- -its are at- -ten- -tive
For do but note a wild and wan- -ton herd
Or race of youth- -ful and un- -han- -dled colts
Fetch- -ing mad bounds bel- -low- -ing and neigh- -ing loud
Which is the hot con- -di- -tion of their blood
If they but hear per- -chance a trum- -pet sound
Or any air of mu- -sic touch their ears
You shall per- -ceive them make a mu- -tu- -al stand
Their sav- -age eyes turn'd to a mod- -est gaze
By the sweet pow- -er of mu- -sic There- -fore the po- -et
Did feign that Or- -pheus drew trees stones and floods
Since nought so stock- -ish hard and full of rage
But mu- -sic for the time doth change his na- -ture
The man that hath no mu- -sic in him- -self
Nor is not mov'd with con- -cord of sweet sounds
Is fit for trea- -sons strat- -a- -gems and spoils
The mo- -tions of his spir- -it are dul- -l:as night
And his af- -fec- -tions dark as Ere- -bus
Let no such man be trust- -ed Mark the mu- -sic
En- -ter POR- -TIA and NER- -IS- -SA
That light we see is burn- -ing in my hall
How far that lit- -tle can- -dle throws his beam- -s!
So shines a good deed in a naughty world
When the moon shone we did not see the can- -dle
So doth the greater glo- -ry dim the less
A sub- -sti- -tute shines bright- -ly as a king
Un- -til a king be by and then his state
Emp- -ties it- -self as doth an in- -land brook
In- -to the main of wa- -ters Mu- -sic! hark!
It is your mu- -sic madam of the house
Noth- -ing is good I see with- -out re- -spect
Me- -thinks it sounds much sweet- -er than by day
Si- -lence be- -stows that virtue on it madam
The crow doth sing as sweet- -ly as the lark
When nei- -ther is at- -tend- -ed and I think
ne nightin- -gale if she should sing by day
When ev- -ery goose is cack- -ling would be thought
No bet- -ter a mu- -si- -cian than the wren
How many things by sea- -son sea- -son'd are
To their right praise and true per- -fec- -tion!
Peace ho! The moon sleeps with Endymion
That is the voice
Or I am much de- -ceiv'd of Por- -tia
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuck- -oo
By the bad voice
Dear la- -dy wel- -come home
We have been pray- -ing for our hus- -band- -s' wel- -fare
Which speed we hope the bet- -ter for our words
Are they re- -turn'd?
Madam they are not yet
But there is come a mes- -sen- -ger be- -fore
To sig- -ni- -fy their com- -ing
Go in Ner- -is- -sa
Give or- -der to my ser- -vants that they take
No note at all of our be- -ing ab- -sent hence
Your hus- -band is at hand I hear his trum- -pet
We are no tel- -l- -- -tales madam fear you not
This night me- -thinks is but the day- -light sick
It looks a lit- -tle paler 'tis a day
Such as the day is when the sun is hid
En- -ter BAS- -SANIO AN- -TO- -NIO GRA- -TIANO and their fol- -low- -ers
We should hold day with the An- -tipodes
If you would walk in ab- -sence of the sun
Let me give light but let me not be light
For a light wife doth make a heavy hus- -band
And nev- -er be Bas- -sanio so for me
But God sort al- -l! You are wel- -come home my lord
I thank you madam give wel- -come to my friend
This is the man this is An- -to- -nio
To whom I am so in- -fin- -ite- -ly bound
You should in all sense be much bound to him
For as I hear he was much bound for you
No more than I am well ac- -quit- -ted of
Sir you are very wel- -come to our house
It must ap- -pear in oth- -er ways than words
There- -fore I scant this breath- -ing cour- -tesy
[To NER- -IS- -SA] By yon- -der moon I swear you do me
In faith I gave it to the judge's clerk
Would he were gelt that had it for my part
Since you do take it love so much at heart
A quar- -rel ho al- -ready! What's the mat- -ter?
About a hoop of gold a pal- -try ring
That she did give me whose posy was
For all the world like cut- -ler's po- -et- -ry
Up- -on a knife 'Love me and leave me not.'
What talk you of the posy or the val- -ue?
You swore to me when I did give it you
That you would wear it till your hour of death
And that it should lie with you in your grave
Though not for me yet for your ve- -he- -ment oaths
You should have been re- -spec- -tive and have kept it
Gave it a judge's clerk! No God's my judge
The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it
He will an if he live to be a man
Ay if a wom- -an live to be a man
Now by this hand I gave it to a youth
A kind of boy a lit- -tle scrubbed boy
No high- -er than thy- -self the judge's clerk
A prat- -ing boy that beg- -g'd it as a fee
I could not for my heart de- -ny it him
You were to blame I must be plain with you
To part so slight- -ly with your wife's first gift
A thing stuck on with oaths up- -on your fin- -ger
And so riv- -et- -ed with faith un- -to your flesh
I gave my love a ring and made him swear
Nev- -er to part with it and here he stands
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it
Nor pluck it from his fin- -ger for the wealth
That the world mas- -ters Now in faith Gra- -tiano
You give your wife too un- -kind a cause of grief
An 'twere to me I should be mad at it
[Aside] Why I were best to cut my left hand off
And swear I lost the ring de- -fend- -ing it
My Lord Bas- -sanio gave his ring away
Un- -to the judge that beg- -g'd it and in- -deed
De- -serv'd it too and then the boy his clerk
That took some pains in writ- -ing he beg- -g'd mine
And nei- -ther man nor mas- -ter would take aught
But the two rings
What ring gave you my lord?
Not that I hope which you re- -ceiv'd of me
If I could add a lie un- -to a fault
I would de- -ny it but you see my fin- -ger
Hath not the ring up- -on it it is gone
Even so void is your false heart of truth
By heav- -en I will ne'er come in your bed
Un- -til I see the ring
Nor I in yours
Till I again see mine
Sweet Por- -tia
If you did know to whom I gave the ring
If you did know for whom I gave the ring
And would con- -ceive for what I gave the ring
And how un- -will- -ing- -ly I left the ring
When nought would be ac- -cept- -ed but the ring
You would abate the strength of your dis- -plea- -sure
If you had known the virtue of the ring
Or half her wor- -thi- -ness that gave the ring
Or your own hon- -our to con- -tain the ring
You would not then have part- -ed with the ring
What man is there so much un- -rea- -son- -able
If you had pleas'd to have de- -fend- -ed it
With any terms of zeal want- -ed the mod- -esty
To urge the thing held as a cer- -e- -mony?
Ner- -is- -sa teach- -es me what to be- -lieve
I'll die for't but some wom- -an had the ring
No by my hon- -our madam by my soul
No wom- -an had it but a civ- -il doc- -tor
Which did refuse three thou- -sand ducats of me
And beg- -g'd the ring the which I did de- -ny him
And suf- -fer- -'d him to go dis- -pleas'd away
Even he that had held up the very life
Of my dear friend What should I say sweet la- -dy?
I was en- -for- -c'd to send it af- -ter him
I was be- -set with shame and cour- -tesy
My hon- -our would not let in- -grat- -i- -tude
So much be- -smear it Par- -don me good la- -dy
For by these blessed can- -dles of the night
Had you been there I think you would have beg- -g'd
The ring of me to give the wor- -thy doc- -tor
Let not that doc- -tor e'er come near my house
Since he hath got the jew- -el that I loved
And that which you did swear to keep for me
I will be- -come as lib- -er- -al as you
I'll not de- -ny him any- -thing I have
No not my body nor my hus- -band's bed
Know him I shall I am well sure of it
Lie not a night from home watch me like Ar- -gus
If you do not if I be left alone
Now by mine hon- -our which is yet mine own
I'll have that doc- -tor for mine bed- -fel- -low
And I his clerk there- -fore be well ad- -vis'd
How you do leave me to mine own pro- -tec- -tion
Well do you so let not me take him then
For if I do I'll mar the young clerk's pen
I am th' un- -hap- -py sub- -ject of these quar- -rels
Sir grieve not you you are wel- -come not with- -stand- -ing
Por- -tia for- -give me this en- -forced wrong
And in the hear- -ing of these many friends
I swear to thee even by thine own fair eyes
Where- -in I see my- -self
Mark you but that!
In both my eyes he dou- -bly sees him- -self
In each eye one swear by your dou- -ble self
And there's an oath of cred- -it
Nay but hear me
Par- -don this fault and by my soul I swear
I nev- -er more will break an oath with thee
I once did lend my body for his wealth
Which but for him that had your hus- -band's ring
Had quite mis- -car- -ried I dare be bound again
My soul up- -on the for- -feit that your lord
Will nev- -er more break faith ad- -vis- -ed- -ly
Then you shall be his sure- -ty Give him this
And bid him keep it bet- -ter than the oth- -er
Here Lord Bas- -sanio swear to keep this ring
By heav- -en it is the same I gave the doc- -tor!
I had it of him Par- -don me Bas- -sanio
For by this ring the doc- -tor lay with me
And par- -don me my gen- -tle Gra- -tiano
For that same scrubbed boy the doc- -tor's clerk
In lieu of this last night did lie with me
Why this is like the mend- -ing of high- -ways
In sum- -mer where the ways are fair enough
What are we cuck- -olds ere we have de- -serv'd it?
Speak not so gross- -ly You are all amaz'd
Here is a let- -ter read it at your leisure
It comes from Pad- -ua from Bel- -lario
There you shall find that Por- -tia was the doc- -tor
Ner- -is- -sa there her clerk Loren- -zo here
Shall wit- -ness I set forth as soon as you
And even but now re- -turn'd I have not yet
En- -ter'd my house An- -to- -nio you are wel- -come
And I have bet- -ter news in store for you
Than you ex- -pect Un- -seal this let- -ter soon
There you shall find three of your ar- -gosies
Are rich- -ly come to har- -bour sud- -den- -ly
You shall not know by what strange ac- -ci- -dent
I chanced on this let- -ter
I am dumb
Were you the doc- -tor and I knew you not?
Were you the clerk that is to make me cuck- -old?
Ay but the clerk that nev- -er means to do it
Un- -less he live un- -til he be a man
Sweet doc- -tor you shall be my bed- -fel- -low
When I am ab- -sent then lie with my wife
Sweet la- -dy you have giv- -en me life and liv- -ing
For here I read for cer- -tain that my ships
Are safe- -ly come to road
How now Loren- -zo!
My clerk hath some good com- -forts too for you
Ay and I'll give them him with- -out a fee
There do I give to you and Jes- -si- -ca
From the rich Jew a spe- -cial deed of gift
Af- -ter his death of all he dies pos- -sess'd of
Fair ladies you drop man- -na in the way
Of starved peo- -ple
It is al- -most morn- -ing
And yet I am sure you are not sat- -is- -fied
Of these events at full Let us go in
And charge us there up- -on in- -ter'- -ga- -to- -ries
And we will an- -swer all things faith- -ful- -ly
Let it be so The first in- -ter'- -ga- -to- -ry
That my Ner- -is- -sa shall be sworn on is
Whether till the next night she had rather stay
Or go to bed now be- -ing two hours to day
But were the day come I should wish it dark
Till I were couch- -ing with the doc- -tor's clerk
Well while I live I'll fear no oth- -er thing
So sore as keep- -ing safe Ner- -is- -sa's ring Exe- -unt