If mu- -sic be the food of love play on
Give me ex- -cess of it that sur- -feit- -ing
The ap- -petite may sick- -en and so die
That strain again; t had a dy- -ing fall
O it came o'er my ear like the sweet south
That breathes up- -on a bank of vi- -o- -lets
Steal- -ing and giv- -ing odour. nough no more
'Tis not so sweet now as it was be- -fore
O spir- -it of love how quick and fresh art thou!
That not- -with- -stand- -ing thy ca- -pac- -i- -ty
Re- -ceiveth as the sea nought en- -ters there
Of what va- -lid- -i- -ty and pitch so- -ev- -er
But falls in- -to abate- -ment and low price
Even in a min- -ute! so full of shapes is fan- -cy
That it alone is high- -- -- -fan- -tas- -ti- -cal
Will you go hunt my lord?
What Cu- -ri- -o?
The hart
Why so I do the no- -blest that I have
O when mine eyes did see Olivia first
Methought she purg'd the air of pesti- -lence
That in- -stant was I turn'd in- -to a hart
And my de- -sires like fell and cru- -el hounds
E'er since pur- -sue me. ow now! what news from her?
So please my lord I might not be ad- -mit- -ted
But from her hand- -maid do re- -turn this an- -swer
The el- -e- -ment it- -self till sev- -en years' heat
Shall not be- -hold her face at am- -ple view
But like a cloistress she will veiled walk
And wa- -ter once a- -- -day her cham- -ber round
With eye- -- -of- -fend- -ing brine all this to sea- -son
A broth- -er's dead love which she would keep fresh
And last- -ing in her sad re- -mem- -brance
O she that hath a heart of that fine frame
To pay this debt of love but to a broth- -er
How will she love when the rich gold- -en shaft
Hath kil- -l'd the flock of all af- -fec- -tions else
That live in her when liv- -er brain and heart
These sov- -er- -eign thrones are all sup- -plied and fil- -l'd
Her sweet per- -fec- -tion- -s, ith one self king!
Away be- -fore me to sweet beds of flow- -ers
Love- -thoughts lie rich when canopied with bow- -ers
What coun- -try friends is this?
This is Il- -lyr- -ia la- -dy
And what should I do in Il- -lyr- -i- -a?
My broth- -er he is in Ely- -si- -um
Per- -chance he is not drown'd hat think you sailors?
It is per- -chance that you your- -self were sav'd
O my poor broth- -er! and so per- -chance may he be
True madam and to com- -fort you with chance
As- -sure your- -self af- -ter our ship did split
When you and those poor num- -ber sav'd with you
Hung on our driv- -ing boat I saw your broth- -er
Most prov- -i- -dent in per- -il bind him- -self
Courage and hope both teach- -ing him the prac- -tice
To a strong mast that liv'd up- -on the sea
Where like Ar- -i- -on on the dol- -phin's back
I saw him hold ac- -quain- -tance with the waves
So long as I could see
For say- -ing so there's gold!
Mine own es- -cape un- -fold- -eth to my hope
Where- -to thy speech serves for au- -thor- -i- -ty
The like of him Know'st thou this coun- -try?
Ay madam well for I was bred and born
Not three hours' trav- -el from this very place
Who gov- -erns here?
A no- -ble duke in na- -ture
As in name
What is his name?
Orsi- -no! I have heard my fa- -ther name him
He was a bach- -e- -lor then
And so is now
Or was so very late for but a month
Ago I went from hence and then 't- -was fresh
In mur- -mur, s you know what great ones do
The less will prat- -tle of, hat he did seek
The love of fair Olivia
What's she?
A vir- -tu- -ous maid the daugh- -ter of a count
That died some twelve- -month since then leav- -ing her
In the pro- -tec- -tion of his son her broth- -er
Who short- -ly al- -so died for whose dear love
They say she hath ab- -jured the com- -pa- -ny
And sight of men
O that I served that la- -dy!
And might not be de- -liv- -ered to the world
Till I had made mine own oc- -ca- -sion mel- -low
What my es- -tate is
That were hard to com- -pass
Be- -cause she will ad- -mit no kind of suit
No not the duke's
There is a fair be- -hav- -iour in thee cap- -tain
And though that na- -ture with a beau- -teous wall
Doth oft close in pol- -lu- -tion yet of thee
I will be- -lieve thou hast a mind that suits
With this thy fair and out- -ward char- -ac- -ter
I pray thee and I'll pay thee boun- -teous- -ly
Con- -ceal me what I am and be my aid
For such dis- -guise as hap- -ly shall be- -come
The form of my in- -tent I'll serve this duke
Thou shalt present me as an eu- -nuch to him
It may be worth thy pains for I can sing
And speak to him in many sorts of mu- -sic
That will al- -low me very worth his ser- -vice
What else may hap to time I will com- -mit
On- -ly shape thou si- -lence to my wit
Be you his eu- -nuch and your mute I'll be
When my tongue blabs then let mine eyes not see
I thank thee Lead me on
SIR TO- -BY
What a plague means my niece to take the death of her
broth- -er thus? I am sure care's an en- -e- -my to life
By my troth Sir To- -by you must come in ear- -li- -er o' nights
your cousin my la- -dy takes great ex- -cep- -tions to your ill hours
SIR TO- -BY
Why let her ex- -cept be- -fore ex- -cept- -ed
Ay but you must con- -fine your- -self with- -in the mod- -est lim- -its
of or- -der
SIR TO- -BY
Con- -fine? I'll con- -fine my- -self no fin- -er than I am these
clothes are good enough to drink in and so be these boots too
an they be not let them hang them- -selves in their own straps
That quaffing and drink- -ing will un- -do you I heard my la- -dy
talk of it yes- -ter- -day and of a fool- -ish knight that you brought in
one night here to be her woo- -er
SIR TO- -BY
Who? Sir An- -drew Ague- -cheek?
Ay he
SIR TO- -BY
He's as tall a man as any's in Il- -lyr- -ia
What's that to the pur- -pose?
SIR TO- -BY
Why he has three thou- -sand ducats a year
Ay but he'll have but a year in all these ducats he's a
very fool and a prodi- -gal
SIR TO- -BY
Fye that you'll say so! he plays o' the vi- -o- -l- -de- -gam- -bo
and speaks three or four lan- -guages word for word with- -out book
and hath all the good gifts of na- -ture
He hath in- -deed, lmost nat- -u- -ral for be- -sides that he's a
fool he's a great quar- -reller and but that he hath the gift of
a cow- -ard to al- -lay the gust he hath in quar- -relling 'tis thought
among the pru- -dent he would quick- -ly have the gift of a grave
SIR TO- -BY
By this hand they are scoundrels and sub- -trac- -tors that
say so of him Who are they?
They that add more- -over he's drunk night- -ly in your com- -pa- -ny
SIR TO- -BY
With drink- -ing healths to my niece I'll drink to her as
long as there is a pas- -sage in my throat and drink in Il- -lyr- -ia
He's a cow- -ard and a coys- -tril that will not drink to my niece
till his brains turn o' the toe like a parish- -- -top What wench!
Castil- -iano- -vul- -go! for here comes Sir An- -drew Ague- -- -face
AGUE- -CHEEK
Sir To- -by Belch! how now Sir To- -by Belch!
SIR TO- -BY
Sweet Sir An- -drew?
SIR AN- -DREW
Bless you fair shrew
And you too sir
SIR TO- -BY
Ac- -cost Sir An- -drew ac- -cost
SIR AN- -DREW
What's that?
SIR TO- -BY
My niece's cham- -ber- -- -maid
SIR AN- -DREW
Good Mis- -tress Ac- -cost I de- -sire bet- -ter ac- -quain- -tance
My name is Mary sir
SIR AN- -DREW
Good Mis- -tress Mary Ac- -cost
SIR TO- -BY
You mis- -take knight ac- -cost is front her board her
woo her as- -sail her
SIR AN- -DREW
By my troth I would not un- -der- -take her in this com- -pa- -ny
Is that the mean- -ing of ac- -cost?
Fare you well gen- -tle- -men
SIR TO- -BY
An thou let part so Sir An- -drew would thou mightst nev- -er
draw sword again
SIR AN- -DREW
An you part so mis- -tress I would I might nev- -er draw
sword again Fair la- -dy do you think you have fools in hand?
Sir I have not you by the hand
SIR AN- -DREW
Mar- -ry but you shall have and here's my hand
Now sir thought is free I pray you bring your hand to
the but- -tery- -bar and let it drink
SIR AN- -DREW
Where- -fore sweet- -heart? what's your metaphor?
It's dry sir
SIR AN- -DREW
Why I think so I am not such an ass but I can keep my
hand dry But what's your jest?
A dry jest sir
SIR AN- -DREW
Are you full of them?
Ay sir I have them at my fin- -ger- -s' ends mar- -ry now I let
go your hand I am bar- -ren
SIR TO- -BY
O knight thou lack- -'st a cup of ca- -nary When did I see
thee so put down?
SIR AN- -DREW
Nev- -er in your life I think un- -less you see ca- -nary put
me down Me- -thinks some- -times I have no more wit than a Chris- -tian
or an or- -di- -nary man has but I am great eater of beef and I
be- -lieve that does harm to my wit
SIR TO- -BY
No ques- -tion
SIR AN- -DREW
An I thought that I'd for- -swear it I'll ride home
to- -- -mor- -row Sir To- -by
SIR TO- -BY
Pourquoy my dear knight?
SIR AN- -DREW
What is pourquoy? do or not do? I would I had be- -stowed
that time in the tongues that I have in fenc- -ing danc- -ing and
bear- -bait- -ing Oh had I but fol- -lowed the art- -s!
SIR TO- -BY
Then hadst thou had an ex- -cel- -lent head of hair
SIR AN- -DREW
Why would that have mend- -ed my hair?
SIR TO- -BY
Past ques- -tion for thou seest it will not curl by na- -ture
SIR AN- -DREW
But it be- -comes me well enough does't not?
SIR TO- -BY
Ex- -cel- -lent it hangs like flax on a distaff and I hope to
see a houswife take thee be- -tween her legs and spin it off
SIR AN- -DREW
Faith I'll home to- -- -mor- -row Sir To- -by your niece will
not be seen or if she be it's four to one she'll none of me
the count him- -self here hard by woos her
SIR TO- -BY
She'll none o' the Count she'll not match above her
de- -gree nei- -ther in es- -tate years nor wit I have heard her
swear't Tut there's life in- -'t man
SIR AN- -DREW
I'll stay a month longer I am a fel- -low o' the strangest
mind i' the world I de- -light in masques and rev- -els some- -times
al- -to- -geth- -er
SIR TO- -BY
Art thou good at these kick- -- -shaws knight?
SIR AN- -DREW
As any man in Il- -lyr- -ia what- -so- -ev- -er he be un- -der the
de- -gree of my bet- -ters and yet I will not com- -pare with an old man
SIR TO- -BY
What is thy ex- -cel- -lence in a gal- -liard knight?
SIR AN- -DREW
Faith I can cut a ca- -per
SIR TO- -BY
And I can cut the mut- -ton to't
SIR AN- -DREW
And I think I have the back- -- -trick sim- -ply as strong as
any man in Il- -lyr- -ia
SIR TO- -BY
Where- -fore are these things hid? where- -fore have these
gifts a cur- -tain be- -fore them? are they like to take dust like
Mis- -tress Mal- -l's pic- -ture? why dost thou not go to church in a
gal- -liard and come home in a coran- -to? My very walk should be a
jig I would not so much as make wa- -ter but in a sink- -a- -- -pace What
dost thou mean? is it a world to hide virtues in? I did think by
the ex- -cel- -lent con- -sti- -tu- -tion of thy leg it was formed un- -der the
star of a gal- -liard
SIR AN- -DREW
Ay 'tis strong and it does in- -dif- -fer- -ent well in
flame- -- -colour'd stock Shall we set about some rev- -el- -s?
SIR TO- -BY
What shall we do else? were we not born un- -der Tau- -rus?
SIR AN- -DREW
Tau- -rus? that's sides and heart
SIR TO- -BY
No sir it is legs and thighs Let me see thee ca- -per ha
high- -er ha ha! xcel- -len- -t!
If the duke con- -tin- -ue these favours to- -wards you Ce- -sario
you are like to be much ad- -vanced he hath known you but three
days and al- -ready you are no stranger
You ei- -ther fear his hu- -mour or my neg- -li- -gence that you call
in ques- -tion the con- -tin- -u- -ance of his love Is he in- -con- -stant sir
in his favours?
No be- -lieve me
I thank you Here comes the count
Who saw Ce- -sario ho?
On your at- -ten- -dance my lord here
Stand you awhile aloof. esario
Thou know'st no less but all I have un- -clasp'd
To thee the book even of my se- -cret soul
There- -fore good youth ad- -dress thy gait un- -to her
Be not de- -nied ac- -cess stand at her doors
And tell them there thy fixed foot shall grow
Till thou have au- -di- -ence
Sure my no- -ble lord
If she be so aban- -don'd to her sor- -row
As it is spoke she nev- -er will ad- -mit me
Be clam- -orous and leap all civ- -il bounds
Rather than make un- -prof- -it- -ed re- -turn
Say I do speak with her my lord What then?
O then un- -fold the pas- -sion of my love
Sur- -prise her with dis- -course of my dear faith
It shall be- -come thee well to act my woes
She will at- -tend it bet- -ter in thy youth
Than in a nun- -cio of more grave as- -pect
I think not so my lord
Dear lad be- -lieve it
For they shall yet be- -lie thy hap- -py years
That say thou art a man Di- -ana's lip
Is not more smooth and ru- -bi- -ous thy small pipe
Is as the maid- -en's or- -gan shrill and sound
And all is sem- -bla- -tive a wom- -an's part
I know thy con- -stel- -la- -tion is right apt
For this af- -fair: ome four or five at- -tend him
All if you will for I my- -self am best
When least in com- -pa- -ny: ros- -per well in this
And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord
To call his for- -tunes thine
I'll do my best
To woo your la- -dy [Aside] Yet a bar- -ful strife!
Whoe'er I woo my- -self would be his wife
Nay ei- -ther tell me where thou hast been or I will not open
my lips so wide as a bris- -tle may en- -ter in way of thy ex- -cuse my
la- -dy will hang thee for thy ab- -sence
Let her hang me he that is well hanged in this world needs
to fear no colours
Make that good
He shall see none to fear
A good lenten an- -swer I can tell thee where that say- -ing was
born of I fear no colours
Where good Mis- -tress Mary?
In the wars and that may you be bold to say in your fool- -ery
Well God give them wis- -dom that have it and those that are
fools let them use their tal- -ents
Yet you will be hanged for be- -ing so long ab- -sent or to be
turned away is not that as good as a hang- -ing to you?
Many a good hang- -ing pre- -vents a bad mar- -riage and for turn- -ing
away let sum- -mer bear it out
You are res- -o- -lute then?
Not so nei- -ther but I am re- -solved on two points
That if one break the oth- -er will hold or if both break
your gask- -ins fall
Apt in good faith very ap- -t! Well go thy way if Sir To- -by
would leave drink- -ing thou wert as wit- -ty a piece of Eve's flesh
as any in Il- -lyr- -ia
Peace you rogue no more o' that here comes my la- -dy make
your ex- -cuse wise- -ly you were best
Wit and't be thy will put me in- -to good fool- -ing! Those wits
that think they have thee do very oft prove fools and I that am
sure I lack thee may pass for a wise man For what says
Quina- -palus? Bet- -ter a wit- -ty fool than a fool- -ish wit. od bless
thee la- -dy!
Take the fool away
Do you not hear fel- -lows? Take away the la- -dy
Go to you're a dry fool I'll no more of you be- -sides you
grow dis- -hon- -est
Two faults madon- -na that drink and good coun- -sel will amend
for give the dry fool drink then is the fool not dry bid the
dis- -hon- -est man mend him- -self if he mend he is no longer
dis- -hon- -est if he can- -not let the botch- -er mend him Any- -thing
that's mend- -ed is but patched virtue that trans- -gress- -es is but
patched with sin and sin that amends is but patched with virtue
If that this sim- -ple syl- -lo- -gism will serve so if it will not
what rem- -e- -dy? As there is no true cuck- -old but calami- -ty so
beau- -ty's a flow- -er: he la- -dy bade take away the fool there- -fore
I say again take her away
Sir I bade them take away you
Mis- -pri- -sion in the high- -est de- -gree! ady Cu- -cul- -lus non fac- -it
monachum that's as much to say I wear not mot- -ley in my
brain Good madon- -na give me leave to prove you a fool
Can you do it?
Dex- -te- -ri- -ous- -ly good madon- -na
Make your proof
I must cat- -e- -chize you for it madon- -na
Good my mouse of virtue an- -swer me
Well sir for want of oth- -er idle- -ness I'll 'bide your proof
Good madon- -na why mourn'st thou?
Good fool for my broth- -er's death
I think his soul is in hell madon- -na
I know his soul is in heav- -en fool
The more fool you madon- -na to mourn for your broth- -er's soul
be- -ing in heav- -en. ake away the fool gen- -tle- -men
What think you of this fool Malvo- -lio? doth he not mend?
Yes and shall do till the pangs of death shake him
In- -fir- -mi- -ty that de- -cays the wise doth ev- -er make the bet- -ter fool
God send you sir a speedy in- -fir- -mi- -ty for the bet- -ter
in- -creas- -ing your fol- -ly! Sir To- -by will be sworn that I am no fox
but he will not pass his word for twopence that you are no fool
How say you to that Malvo- -lio?
I mar- -vel your la- -dy- -ship takes de- -light in such a bar- -ren
ras- -cal I saw him put down the oth- -er day with an or- -di- -nary fool
that has no more brain than a stone Look you now he's out of
his guard al- -ready un- -less you laugh and min- -is- -ter oc- -ca- -sion to him
he is gagged I protest I take these wise men that crow so at
these set kind of fools no bet- -ter than the fool- -s' za- -nies
O you are sick of self- -- -love Malvo- -lio and taste with a
dis- -tem- -pered ap- -petite To be gen- -er- -ous guilt- -less and of free
dis- -po- -si- -tion is to take those things for bird- -bolts that you deem
can- -non bul- -lets There is no slan- -der in an al- -lowed fool though he
do noth- -ing but rail nor no rail- -ing in known dis- -creet man though
he do noth- -ing but re- -prove
Now Mer- -cury en- -due thee with leas- -ing for thou speak- -est well of
fool- -s!
Madam there is at the gate a young gen- -tle- -man much de- -sires
to speak with you
From the Count Orsi- -no is it?
I know not madam 'tis a fair young man and well at- -tend- -ed
Who of my peo- -ple hold him in de- -lay?
Sir To- -by madam your kins- -man
Fetch him off I pray you he speaks noth- -ing but mad- -man
Fie on him!
Go you Malvo- -lio if it be a suit from the count I am sick or
not at home what you will to dis- -miss it
Now you see sir how your fool- -ing grows old and peo- -ple dis- -like
it
Thou hast spoke for us madon- -na as if thy el- -dest son should
be a fool whose skull Jove cram with brains for here he comes
one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater
By mine hon- -our half drunk! hat is he at the gate cous- -in?
SIR TO- -BY
A gen- -tle- -man
A gen- -tle- -man? What gen- -tle- -man?
SIR TO- -BY
'Tis a gen- -tle- -man here. plague o' these pick- -le- -her- -rings! ow
now sot?
Good Sir To- -by
Cousin cousin how have you come so ear- -ly by this lethar- -gy?
SIR TO- -BY
Lech- -ery! I de- -fy lech- -ery There's one at the gate
Ay mar- -ry what is he?
SIR TO- -BY
Let him be the dev- -il an he will I care not give me
faith say I Well it's all one
What's a drunk- -en man like fool?
Like a drowned man a fool and a mad- -man one draught above
heat makes him a fool the sec- -ond mads him and a third drowns
him
Go thou and seek the coro- -ner and let him sit o' my coz
for he's in the third de- -gree of drink he's drowned go look
af- -ter him
He is but mad yet madon- -na and the fool shall look to the
mad- -man
Madam yond young fel- -low swears he will speak with you I
told him you were sick he takes on him to un- -der- -stand so much
and there- -fore comes to speak with you I told him you were
asleep he seems to have a fore- -knowl- -edge of that too and
there- -fore comes to speak with you What is to be said to him
la- -dy? he's for- -ti- -fied against any de- -nial
Tell him he shall not speak with me
Has been told so and he says he'll stand at your door
like a sher- -if- -f's post and be the sup- -port- -er of a bench but he'll
speak with you
What kind of man is he?
Why of mankind
What man- -ner of man?
Of very ill man- -ner he'll speak with you will you or no
Of what per- -son- -age and years is he?
Not yet old enough for a man nor young enough for a boy
as a squash is be- -fore 'tis a peas- -cod or a codling when 'tis
al- -most an ap- -ple 'tis with him e'en stand- -ing wa- -ter be- -tween boy
and man He is very well- -- -favoured and he speaks very shrewish- -ly
one would think his moth- -er's milk were scarce out of him
Let him ap- -proach Call in my gen- -tle- -wom- -an
Gen- -tle- -wom- -an my la- -dy calls
Give me my veil come throw it o'er my face
We'll once more hear Orsi- -no's em- -bassy
The hon- -ourable la- -dy of the house which is she?
Speak to me I shall an- -swer for her Your will?
Most ra- -di- -ant ex- -quis- -ite and un- -match- -able beau- -ty, pray you
tell me if this be the la- -dy of the house for I nev- -er saw her I
would be loath to cast away my speech for be- -sides that it is
ex- -cel- -lent- -ly well penned I have tak- -en great pains to con it Good
beau- -ties let me sus- -tain no scorn I am very comptible even to
the least sin- -is- -ter us- -age
Whence came you sir?
I can say lit- -tle more than I have stud- -ied and that
ques- -tion's out of my part Good gen- -tle one give me mod- -est
as- -sur- -ance if you be the la- -dy of the house that I may pro- -ceed in
my speech
Are you a co- -me- -di- -an?
No my pro- -found heart and yet by the very fangs of mal- -ice
I swear I am not that I play Are you the la- -dy of the house?
If I do not usurp my- -self I am
Most cer- -tain if you are she you do usurp your- -self for
what is yours to be- -stow is not yours to re- -serve But this is from
my com- -mis- -sion I will on with my speech in your praise and then
show you the heart of my mes- -sage
Come to what is im- -por- -tant in- -'t I for- -give you the praise
Alas I took great pains to study it and 'tis po- -et- -i- -cal
It is the more like to be feigned I pray you keep it in I
heard you were saucy at my gates and al- -lowed your ap- -proach
rather to won- -der at you than to hear you If you be not mad be
gone if you have rea- -son be brief 'tis not that time of moon
with me to make one in so skip- -ping a di- -a- -logue
Will you hoist sail sir? here lies your way
No good swab- -ber I am to hull here a lit- -tle longer
Some mol- -li- -fi- -ca- -tion for your gi- -ant sweet la- -dy
Tell me your mind
I am a mes- -sen- -ger
Sure you have some hideous mat- -ter to de- -liv- -er when the
cour- -tesy of it is so fear- -ful Speak your of- -fice
It alone con- -cerns your ear I bring no over- -ture of war no
tax- -a- -tion of homage I hold the olive in my hand my words are as
full of peace as mat- -ter
Yet you be- -gan rude- -ly What are you? what would you?
The rude- -ness that hath ap- -peared in me have I learned from my
en- -ter- -tain- -ment What I am and what I would are as se- -cret as
maid- -en- -head to your ears di- -vin- -i- -ty to any oth- -er's pro- -fa- -na- -tion
Give us the place alone we will hear this di- -vin- -i- -ty
Now sir what is your tex- -t?
Most sweet la- -dy
A com- -fort- -able doc- -trine and much may be said of it
Where lies your tex- -t?
In Orsi- -no's bo- -som
In his bo- -som? In what chap- -ter of his bo- -som?
To an- -swer by the method in the first of his heart
O I have read it it is heresy Have you no more to say?
Good madam let me see your face
Have you any com- -mis- -sion from your lord to ne- -go- -ti- -ate with my
face? you are now out of your text but we will draw the cur- -tain
and show you the pic- -ture Look you sir such a one I was this
present Is't not well done?
Ex- -cel- -lent- -ly done if God did all
'Tis in grain sir 'twill en- -dure wind and weath- -er
'Tis beau- -ty tru- -ly blent whose red and white
Na- -ture's own sweet and cun- -ning hand laid on
La- -dy you are the cru- -el'st she alive
If you will lead these graces to the grave
And leave the world no copy
O sir I will not be so hard- -- -heart- -ed I will give out
divers sched- -ules of my beau- -ty It shall be in- -ven- -to- -ried and ev- -ery
par- -ti- -cle and uten- -sil la- -belled to my will as item two lips
in- -dif- -fer- -ent red item two grey eyes with lids to them item one
neck one chin and so forth Were you sent hith- -er to praise me?
I see you what you are you are too proud
But if you were the dev- -il you are fair
My lord and mas- -ter loves you O such love
Could be but rec- -om- -pen- -s'd though you were crown'd
The non- -pareil of beau- -ty!
How does he love me?
With ado- -ra- -tions fer- -tile tears
With groans that thun- -der love with sighs of fire
Your lord does know my mind I can- -not love him
Yet I sup- -pose him vir- -tu- -ous know him no- -ble
Of great es- -tate of fresh and stain- -less youth
In voic- -es well di- -vulged free learn'd and valiant
And in di- -men- -sion and the shape of na- -ture
A gra- -cious per- -son but yet I can- -not love him
He might have took his an- -swer long ago
If I did love you in my mas- -ter's flame
With such a suf- -fer- -ing such a dead- -ly life
In your de- -nial I would find no sense
I would not un- -der- -stand it
Why what would you?
Make me a wil- -low cab- -in at your gate
And call up- -on my soul with- -in the house
Write loy- -al can- -tons of con- -temned love
And sing them loud even in the dead of night
Hol- -la your name to the re- -ver- -ber- -ate hills
And make the bab- -bling gos- -sip of the air
Cry out Olivi- -a! O you should not rest
Be- -tween the el- -e- -ments of air and earth
But you should pity me
You might do much What is your parent- -age?
Above my for- -tunes yet my state is well I am a gen- -tle- -man
Get you to your lord
I can- -not love him let him send no more
Un- -less per- -chance you come to me again
To tell me how he takes it Fare you well
I thank you for your pains spend this for me
I am no fee'd post la- -dy keep your purse
My mas- -ter not my- -self lacks rec- -om- -pense
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love
And let your fer- -vour like my mas- -ter's be
Placed in con- -temp- -t! Farewell fair cru- -el- -ty
What is your parent- -age?
'Above my for- -tunes yet my state is well
I am a gen- -tle- -man.' 'll be sworn thou art
Thy tongue thy face thy limbs ac- -tions and spir- -it
Do give thee five- -- -fold bla- -zon Not too fast: oft soft!
Un- -less the mas- -ter were the man. ow now?
Even so quick- -ly may one catch the plague?
Me- -thinks I feel this youth's per- -fec- -tions
With an in- -vis- -i- -ble and sub- -tle stealth
To creep in at mine eyes Well let it be
What ho Malvo- -lio!
Here madam at your ser- -vice
Run af- -ter that same peev- -ish mes- -sen- -ger
The coun- -ty's man he left this ring be- -hind him
Would I or not tell him I'll none of it
De- -sire him not to flat- -ter with his lord
Nor hold him up with hopes I am not for him
If that the youth will come this way to- -- -mor- -row
I'll give him rea- -sons for't Hie thee Malvo- -lio
Madam I will
I do I know not what and fear to find
Mine eye too great a flat- -ter- -er for my mind
Fate show thy force Our- -selves we do not owe
What is de- -creed must be and be this so!
Will you stay no longer nor will you not that I go with you?
By your pa- -tience no my stars shine dark- -ly over me the
ma- -lig- -nan- -cy of my fate might per- -haps dis- -tem- -per yours there- -fore
I shall crave of you your leave that I may bear my evils alone
It were a bad rec- -om- -pense for your love to lay any of them on
you
Let me know of you whith- -er you are bound
No 'sooth sir my de- -ter- -mi- -nate voy- -age is mere
ex- -trav- -a- -gan- -cy But I per- -ceive in you so ex- -cel- -lent a touch of
mod- -esty that you will not ex- -tort from me what I am will- -ing to
keep in there- -fore it charges me in man- -ners the rather to ex- -press
my- -self You must know of me then An- -to- -nio my name is Se- -bas- -tian
which I called Rodor- -i- -go my fa- -ther was that Se- -bas- -tian of
Mes- -saline whom I know you have heard of he left be- -hind him
my- -self and a sis- -ter both born in an hour if the heav- -ens had
been pleased would we had so end- -ed! but you sir al- -tered that
for some hours be- -fore you took me from the breach of the sea was
my sis- -ter drowned
Alas the day!
A la- -dy sir though it was said she much re- -sem- -bled me
was yet of many ac- -count- -ed beau- -ti- -ful but though I could not with
such es- -timable won- -der over- -far be- -lieve that yet thus far I will
bold- -ly pub- -lish her, he bore mind that en- -vy could not but call
fair She is drowned al- -ready sir with salt wa- -ter though I seem
to drown her re- -mem- -brance again with more
Par- -don me sir your bad en- -ter- -tain- -ment
O good An- -to- -nio for- -give me your trou- -ble
If you will not mur- -der me for my love let me be your ser- -vant
If you will not un- -do what you have done hat is kill
him whom you have re- -cov- -ered esire it not Fare ye well at once
my bo- -som is full of kind- -ness and I am yet so near the man- -ners of
my moth- -er that up- -on the least oc- -ca- -sion more mine eyes will tell
tales of me I am bound to the Count Orsi- -no's court farewell
The gen- -tle- -ness of all the gods go with thee!
I have many cne- -mies in Orsi- -no's court
Else would I very short- -ly see thee there
But come what may I do adore thee so
That dan- -ger shall seem sport and I will go
Were you not even now with the Count- -ess Olivi- -a?
Even now sir on a mod- -er- -ate pace I have since ar- -rived but
hith- -er
She re- -turns this ring to you sir you might have saved
me my pains to have tak- -en it away your- -self She adds more- -over
that you should put your lord in- -to a des- -per- -ate as- -sur- -ance she will
none of him and one thing more that you be nev- -er so hardy to
come again in his af- -fairs un- -less it be to re- -port your lord's
tak- -ing of this Re- -ceive it so
She took the ring of me I'll none of it
Come sir you pee- -vish- -ly threw it to her and her will is
it should be so re- -turned If it be worth stoop- -ing for there it
lies in your eye if not be it his that finds it
I left no ring with her what means this la- -dy?
For- -tune for- -bid my out- -side have not char- -m'd her!
She made good view of me in- -deed so much
That methought her eyes had lost her tongue
For she did speak in starts dis- -tract- -ed- -ly
She loves me sure the cun- -ning of her pas- -sion
In- -vites me in this churl- -ish mes- -sen- -ger
None of my lord's ring! why he sent her none
I am the man if it be so, s 'tis
Poor la- -dy she were bet- -ter love a dream
Dis- -guise I see thou art a wicked- -ness
Where- -in the preg- -nant en- -e- -my does much
How easy is it for the prop- -er- -- -false
In wom- -en's wax- -en hearts to set their form- -s!
Alas our frailty is the cause not we
For such as we are made of such we be
How will this fadge? My mas- -ter loves her dear- -ly
And I poor mon- -ster fond as much on him
And she mis- -tak- -en seems to dote on me
What will be- -come of this? As I am man
My state is des- -per- -ate for my mas- -ter's love
As I am wom- -an now alas the day!
What thrift- -less sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!
O time thou must un- -tan- -gle this not I
It is too hard a knot for me to un- -tie!
SIR TO- -BY
Ap- -proach Sir An- -drew not to be a- -bed af- -ter mid- -night is to
be up be- -times and dilu- -cu- -lo surg- -ere thou know'st
SIR AN- -DREW
Nay by my troth I know not but I know to be up late
is to be up late
SIR TO- -BY
A false con- -clu- -sion I hate it as an un- -filled can To be
up af- -ter mid- -night and to go to bed then is ear- -ly so that to go
to bed af- -ter mid- -night is to go to bed be- -times Do not our lives
con- -sist of the four el- -e- -ments?
SIR AN- -DREW
Faith so they say but I think it rather con- -sists of
eat- -ing and drink- -ing
SIR TO- -BY
Thou art a schol- -ar let us there- -fore eat and drink
Mar- -i- -an I say! stoup of wine
SIR AN- -DREW
Here comes the fool i' faith
How now my heart- -s? Did you nev- -er see the pic- -ture of we three?
SIR TO- -BY
Wel- -come ass Now let's have a catch
SIR AN- -DREW
By my troth the fool has an ex- -cel- -lent breast I had
rather than forty shillings I had such a leg and so sweet a
breath to sing as the fool has In sooth thou wast in very
gra- -cious fool- -ing last night when thou spok- -est of Pi- -grogromi- -tus
of the Va- -pi- -ans pass- -ing the equinoc- -tial of Queubus 't- -was very
good i' faith I sent thee six- -pence for thy le- -man Hadst it?
I did im- -peti- -cos thy gratil- -li- -ty for Malvo- -lio's nose is no
whip- -stock My la- -dy has a white hand and the Myr- -mi- -dons are no
bot- -tle- -ale hous- -es
SIR AN- -DREW
Ex- -cel- -len- -t! Why this is the best fool- -ing when all is
done Now a song
SIR TO- -BY
Come on there is six- -pence for you let's have a song
SIR AN- -DREW
There's a testril of me too if one knight give a
Would you have a love- -- -song or a song of good life?
SIR TO- -BY
A love- -- -song a love- -- -song
SIR AN- -DREW
Ay ay I care not for good life
SONG
O mis- -tress mine where are you roam- -ing?
O stay and hear your true love's com- -ing
That can sing both high and low
Trip no fur- -ther pret- -ty sweet- -ing
Jour- -neys end in lovers meet- -ing
Ev- -ery wise man's son doth know
SIR AN- -DREW
Ex- -cel- -lent good i' faith
SIR TO- -BY
Good good
What is love? 'tis not here- -after
Present mirth hath present laugh- -ter
What's to come is still un- -sure
In de- -lay there lies no plen- -ty
Then come kiss me sweet and twen- -ty
Youth's a stuff will not en- -dure
SIR AN- -DREW
A mel- -liflu- -ous voice as I am true knight
SIR TO- -BY
A con- -ta- -gious breath
SIR AN- -DREW
Very sweet and con- -ta- -gious i' faith
SIR TO- -BY
To hear by the nose it is dul- -cet in con- -ta- -gion But shall
we make the welkin dance in- -deed? Shall we rouse the night- -owl in
a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver? shall we do
that?
SIR AN- -DREW
An you love me let's do't I am dog at a catch
By'r la- -dy sir and some dogs will catch well
SIR AN- -DREW
Most cer- -tain let our catch be 'Thou knave.'
'Hold thy peace thou knave' knight? I shall be con- -strain'd
in- -'t to call thee knave knight
SIR AN- -DREW
'Tis not the first time I have con- -strained one to call
me knave Be- -gin fool it be- -gins 'Hold thy peace.'
I shall nev- -er be- -gin if I hold my peace
SIR AN- -DREW
Good i' faith! Come be- -gin
What a cat- -er- -waul- -ing do you keep here! If my la- -dy have not
called up her stew- -ard Malvo- -lio and bid him turn you out of
doors nev- -er trust me
SIR TO- -BY
My la- -dy's a Cata- -ian we are politi- -cians Malvo- -lio's a
Peg- -a- -Ram- -sey and
'Three mer- -ry men be we.'
Am not I con- -san- -guineous? am I not of her blood? Tilly- -- -val- -ley
la- -dy
'There dwelt a man in Baby- -lon la- -dy la- -dy.'
Beshrew me the knight's in ad- -mirable fool- -ing
SIR AN- -DREW
Ay he does well enough if he be dis- -posed and so do I
too he does it with a bet- -ter grace but I do it more nat- -u- -ral
SIR TO- -BY
For the love o' God peace!
My mas- -ters are you mad? or what are you? Have you no
wit man- -ners nor hon- -esty but to gab- -ble like tin- -kers at this
time of night? Do ye make an ale- -- -house of my la- -dy's house that
ye squeak out your co- -zier- -s' catch- -es with- -out any mit- -i- -ga- -tion or
re- -morse of voice? Is there no re- -spect of place per- -sons nor
time in you?
SIR TO- -BY
We did keep time sir in our catch- -es Sneck up!
Sir To- -by I must be round with you My la- -dy bade me tell
you that though she har- -bours you as her kins- -man she's noth- -ing
al- -lied to your dis- -or- -ders If you can sep- -a- -rate your- -self and your
mis- -de- -meanours you are wel- -come to the house if not an it would
please you to take leave of her she is very will- -ing to bid you
farewell
SIR TO- -BY
'Farewell dear heart since I must needs be gone.'
Nay good Sir To- -by
'His eyes do show his days are al- -most done.'
Is't even so?
SIR TO- -BY
'But I will nev- -er die.'
Sir To- -by there you lie
This is much cred- -it to you
SIR TO- -BY
'What an if you do?'
SIR TO- -BY
'Shall I bid him go and spare not?'
'O no no no no you dare not.'
SIR TO- -BY
Out o' tune? sir ye lie Art any more than a stew- -ard? Dost thou
think be- -cause thou art vir- -tu- -ous there shall be no more cakes
and ale?
Yes by Saint Anne and gin- -ger shall be hot i' the mouth
too
SIR TO- -BY
Thou'art i' the right. o sir rub your chain with crumbs
A stoup of wine Mari- -a!
Mis- -tress Mary if you prized my la- -dy's favour at any- -thing
more than con- -tempt you would not give means for this un- -civ- -il
rule she shall know of it by this hand
Go shake your ears
SIR AN- -DREW
'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's a- -hun- -gry
to chal- -lenge him the field and then to break prom- -ise with him
and make a fool of him
SIR TO- -BY
Do't knight I'll write thee a chal- -lenge or I'll
de- -liv- -er thy in- -dig- -na- -tion to him by word of mouth
Sweet Sir To- -by be pa- -tient for to- -night since the youth of
the coun- -t's was to- -- -day with my la- -dy she is much out of qui- -et
For Mon- -sieur Malvo- -lio let me alone with him if I do not gull
him in- -to a nay- -word and make him a com- -mon recre- -ation do not
think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed I know I can
do it
SIR TO- -BY
Pos- -sess us pos- -sess us tell us some- -thing of him
Mar- -ry sir some- -times he is a kind of Pu- -ri- -tan
SIR AN- -DREW
O if I thought that I'd beat him like a dog
SIR TO- -BY
What for be- -ing a Pu- -ri- -tan? thy ex- -quis- -ite rea- -son dear knight?
SIR AN- -DREW
I have no ex- -quis- -ite rea- -son for't but I have rea- -son good enough
The dev- -il a Pu- -ri- -tan that he is or any- -thing con- -stant- -ly but a
time- -- -pleas- -er an af- -fec- -tioned ass that cons state with- -out book and
ut- -ters it by great swarths the best per- -suad- -ed of him- -self so
crammed as he thinks with ex- -cel- -lences that it is his grounds
of faith that all that look on him love him and on that vice in
him will my re- -venge find no- -table cause to work
SIR TO- -BY
What wilt thou do?
I will drop in his way some ob- -scure epis- -tles of love
where- -in by the colour of his beard the shape of his leg the
man- -ner of his gait the ex- -pres- -sure of his eye fore- -head and
com- -plex- -ion he shall find him- -self most feel- -ing- -ly per- -son- -at- -ed I
can write very like my la- -dy your niece on a for- -got- -ten mat- -ter we
can hard- -ly make dis- -tinc- -tion of our hands
SIR TO- -BY
Ex- -cel- -len- -t! I smell a de- -vice
SIR AN- -DREW
I have't in my nose too
SIR TO- -BY
He shall think by the let- -ters that thou wilt drop that
they come from my niece and that she is in love with him
My pur- -pose is in- -deed a horse of that colour
SIR AN- -DREW
And your horse now would make him an ass
Ass I doubt not
SIR AN- -DREW
O 'twill be ad- -mirable!
Sport roy- -al I war- -rant you I know my physic will work with
him I will plant you two and let the fool make a third where
he shall find the let- -ter ob- -serve his con- -struc- -tion of it For
this night to bed and dream on the event Farewell
SIR TO- -BY
Good night Penthe- -silea
SIR AN- -DREW
Be- -fore me she's a good wench
SIR TO- -BY
She's a bea- -gle true bred and one that adores me What o' that?
SIR AN- -DREW
I was adored once too
SIR TO- -BY
Let's to bed knight. hou hadst need send for more mon- -ey
SIR AN- -DREW
If I can- -not re- -cov- -er your niece I am a foul way out
SIR TO- -BY
Send for mon- -ey knight if thou hast her not i' the end
call me Cut
SIR AN- -DREW
If I do not nev- -er trust me take it how you will
SIR TO- -BY
Come come I'll go burn some sack 'tis too late to go
to bed now come knight come knight
Give me some mu- -sic: ow good mor- -row friends
Now good Ce- -sario but that piece of song
That old and an- -tique song we heard last night
Methought it did re- -lieve my pas- -sion much
More than light airs and rec- -ol- -lect- -ed terms
Of these most brisk and gid- -dy- -- -paced times
Come but one verse
He is not here so please your lord- -ship that should sing it
Who was it?
Feste the jester my lord a fool that the La- -dy Olivi- -a's
fa- -ther took much de- -light in he is about the house
Seek him out and play the tune the while
Come hith- -er boy If ev- -er thou shalt love
In the sweet pangs of it re- -mem- -ber me
For such as I am all true lovers are
Un- -staid and skit- -tish in all mo- -tions else
Save in the con- -stant im- -age of the crea- -ture
That is belov'd. ow dost thou like this tune?
It gives a very echo to the seat
Where Love is throned
Thou dost speak mas- -ter- -ly
My life up- -on't young though thou art thine eye
Hath stayed up- -on some favour that it loves
Hath it not boy?
A lit- -tle by your favour
What kind of wom- -an is't?
Of your com- -plex- -ion
She is not worth thee then What years i' faith?
About your years my lord
Too old by heav- -en! Let still the wom- -an take
An el- -der than her- -self so wears she to him
So sways she lev- -el in her hus- -band's heart
For boy how- -ev- -er we do praise our- -selves
Our fan- -cies are more gid- -dy and un- -firm
More long- -ing wa- -ver- -ing soon- -er lost and won
Than wom- -en's are
I think it well my lord
Then let thy love be younger than thy- -self
Or thy af- -fec- -tion can- -not hold the bent
For wom- -en are as ros- -es whose fair flow- -er
Be- -ing once dis- -play'd doth fall that very hour
And so they are alas that they are so
To die even when they to per- -fec- -tion grow!
O fel- -low come the song we had last night
Mark it Ce- -sario it is old and plain
The spin- -sters and the knit- -ters in the sun
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones
Do use to chant it it is sil- -ly sooth
And dal- -lies with the in- -no- -cence of love
Like the old age
Are you ready sir?
SONG
Come away come away death
And in sad cy- -press let me be laid
Fly away fly away breath
I am slain by a fair cru- -el maid
My shroud of white stuck all with yew
O pre- -pare it!
My part of death no one so true
Did share it
Not a flow- -er not a flow- -er sweet
On my black cof- -fin let there be strown
Not a friend not a friend greet
My poor corpse where my bones shall be thrown
A thou- -sand thou- -sand sighs to save
Lay me O where
Sad true lover nev- -er find my grave
To weep there!
There's for thy pains
No pains sir I take plea- -sure in singing sir
I'll pay thy plea- -sure then
Tru- -ly sir and plea- -sure will be paid one time or an- -oth- -er
Give me now leave to leave thee
Now the melan- -choly god pro- -tect thee and the tai- -lor make thy
dou- -blet of change- -able taffe- -ta for thy mind is a very opal!
would have men of such con- -stan- -cy put to sea that their busi- -ness
might be ev- -ery- -thing and their in- -tent ev- -ery- -where for that's it
that al- -ways makes a good voy- -age of noth- -ing. arewell
Let all the rest give place
Once more Ce- -sario
Get thee to yond same sov- -er- -eign cru- -el- -ty
Tell her my love more no- -ble than the world
Prizes not quan- -ti- -ty of dirty lands
The parts that for- -tune hath be- -stow'd up- -on her
Tell her I hold as gid- -di- -ly as for- -tune
But 'tis that mir- -a- -cle and queen of gems
That Na- -ture pranks her in at- -tracts my soul
But if she can- -not love you sir?
I can- -not be so an- -swer'd
'Sooth but you must
Say that some la- -dy as per- -haps there is
Hath for your love as great a pang of heart
As you have for Olivia you can- -not love her
You tell her so Must she not then be an- -swer'd?
There is no wom- -an's sides
Can bide the beat- -ing of so strong a pas- -sion
As love doth give my heart no wom- -an's heart
So big to hold so much they lack re- -ten- -tion
Alas their love may be called ap- -petite
No mo- -tion of the liv- -er but the palate
That suf- -fer sur- -feit cloy- -ment and re- -volt
But mine is all as hun- -gry as the sea
And can di- -gest as much make no com- -pare
Be- -tween that love a wom- -an can bear me
And that I owe Olivia
Ay but I know
What dost thou know?
Too well what love wom- -en to men may owe
In faith they are as true of heart as we
My fa- -ther had a daugh- -ter loved a man
As it might be per- -haps were I a wom- -an
I should your lord- -ship
And what's her his- -to- -ry?
A blank my lord She nev- -er told her love
But let con- -ceal- -ment like a worm i' the bud
Feed on her damask cheek she pined in thought
And with a green and yel- -low melan- -choly
She sat like pa- -tience on a mon- -u- -ment
Smil- -ing at grief Was not this love in- -deed?
We men may say more swear more but in- -deed
Our shows are more than will for still we prove
Much in our vows but lit- -tle in our love
But died thy sis- -ter of her love my boy?
I am all the daugh- -ters of my fa- -ther's house
And all the broth- -ers too; nd yet I know not
Sir shall I to this la- -dy?
Ay that's the theme
To her in haste give her this jew- -el say
My love can give no place bide no de- -nay
SIR TO- -BY
Come thy ways Signior Fabi- -an
Nay I'll come if I lose a scru- -ple of this sport let me be
boiled to death with melan- -choly
SIR TO- -BY
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the nig- -gard- -ly ras- -cal- -ly
sheep- -- -biter come by some no- -table shame?
I would ex- -ult man you know he brought me out o' favour
with my la- -dy about a bear- -bait- -ing here
SIR TO- -BY
To anger him we'll have the bear again and we will fool
him black and blue: hall we not Sir An- -drew?
SIR AN- -DREW
An we do not it is pity of our lives
SIR TO- -BY
Here comes the lit- -tle vil- -lain: ow now my net- -tle of In- -di- -a?
Get ye all three in- -to the box- -tree Malvo- -lio's com- -ing down
this walk he has been yon- -der i' the sun prac- -tis- -ing be- -hav- -iour to
his own shad- -ow this half hour ob- -serve him for the love of
mock- -ery for I know this let- -ter will make a con- -tem- -pla- -tive id- -iot
Lie thou there [Throws down a let- -ter] for here comes the trout
that must be caught with tick- -ling
'Tis but for- -tune all is for- -tune Maria once told me she
did af- -fect me and I have heard her- -self come thus near that
should she fan- -cy it should be one of my com- -plex- -ion Be- -sides she
us- -es me with a more ex- -alt- -ed re- -spect than any one else that
fol- -lows her What should I think on't?
SIR TO- -BY
Here's an over- -ween- -ing rogue!
O peace! Con- -tem- -pla- -tion makes a rare turkey- -- -cock of him
how he jets un- -der his ad- -vanced plumes!
SIR AN- -DREW
'S- -light I could so beat the rogue
SIR TO- -BY
Peace I say
To be Count Malvo- -lio
SIR TO- -BY
Ah rogue!
SIR AN- -DREW
Pis- -tol him pis- -tol him
SIR TO- -BY
Peace peace
There is ex- -am- -ple for't the la- -dy of the Stra- -chy mar- -ried
the yeo- -man of the wardrobe
SIR AN- -DREW
Fie on him Jeze- -bel!
O peace! now he's deeply in look how imag- -i- -na- -tion blows him
Hav- -ing been three months mar- -ried to her sit- -ting in my state
SIR TO- -BY
O for a stone- -bow to hit him in the eye!
Call- -ing my of- -fi- -cers about me in my branched vel- -vet gown
hav- -ing come from a day- -bed where I have left Olivia sleep- -ing
SIR TO- -BY
Fire and brim- -stone!
O peace peace
And then to have the hu- -mour of state and af- -ter a de- -mure
trav- -el of re- -gard, elling them I know my place as I would they
should do theirs, o ask for my kins- -man To- -by
SIR TO- -BY
Bolts and shack- -les!
O peace peace peace! Now now
Sev- -en of my peo- -ple with an obe- -di- -ent start make out for
him I frown the while and per- -chance wind up my watch or play
with some rich jew- -el To- -by ap- -proach- -es court'sies there to me
SIR TO- -BY
Shall this fel- -low live?
Though our si- -lence be drawn from us with cars yet peace
I ex- -tend my hand to him thus quench- -ing my fa- -mil- -iar smile with an
aus- -tere re- -gard of con- -trol
SIR TO- -BY
And does not To- -by take you a blow o' the lips then?
Say- -ing 'Cousin To- -by my for- -tunes hav- -ing cast me on your
niece give me this pre- -rog- -a- -tive of speech'
SIR TO- -BY
What what?
'Y- -ou must amend your drunk- -en- -ness.'
SIR TO- -BY
Out scab!
Nay pa- -tience or we break the sinews of our plot
'Be- -sides you waste the trea- -sure of your time with a
fool- -ish knight'
SIR AN- -DREW
That's me I war- -rant you
'One Sir An- -drew'
SIR AN- -DREW
I knew 't- -was I for many do call me fool
What em- -ploy- -ment have we here?
Now is the wood- -cock near the gin
SIR TO- -BY
O peace! And the spir- -it of hu- -mours in- -ti- -mate read- -ing aloud to
him!
By my life this is my la- -dy's hand these be her very
C's her U's and her T's and thus makes she her great P's It
is in con- -tempt of ques- -tion her hand
SIR AN- -DREW
Her C's her U's and her T's Why that?
wish- -es.' Her very phras- -es! y your leave wax. oft! nd the
im- -pres- -sure her Lu- -crece with which she us- -es to seal 'tis my
la- -dy To whom should this be?
This wins him liv- -er and all
'Jove knows I love
But who?
Lips do not move
No man must know.'
'No man must know.' hat fol- -lows? the num- -bers al- -ter'd! No man
must know': f this should be thee Malvo- -lio?
SIR TO- -BY
Mar- -ry hang thee brock!
'I may com- -mand where I adore
But si- -lence like a Lu- -crece knife
With blood- -less stroke my heart doth gore
M O A I doth sway my life.'
A fus- -tian rid- -dle!
SIR TO- -BY
Ex- -cel- -lent wench say I
'M O A I doth sway my life.' ay but first let me see, et
me see, et me see
What dish of poi- -son has she dressed him!
SIR TO- -BY
And with what wing the stan- -nyel checks at it!
'I may com- -mand where I adore.' Why she may com- -mand me I
serve her she is my la- -dy Why this is ev- -i- -dent to any for- -mal
ca- -pac- -i- -ty there is no ob- -struc- -tion in this; nd the end, hat
should that al- -pha- -bet- -i- -cal po- -si- -tion por- -tend? If I could make that
re- -sem- -ble some- -thing in me. oft- -ly! O A I
SIR TO- -BY
O ay make up that: e is now at a cold scent
Sowter will cry up- -on't for all this though it be as rank as a
fox
M, alvo- -lio M, hy that be- -gins my name
Did not I say he would work it out?
The cur is ex- -cel- -lent at faults
M, ut then there is no con- -so- -nan- -cy in the se- -quel that
suf- -fers un- -der pro- -ba- -tion A should fol- -low but O does
And O shall end I hope
SIR TO- -BY
Ay or I'll cud- -gel him and make him cry 'O!'
And then I comes be- -hind
Ay an you had any eye be- -hind you you might see more
de- -trac- -tion at your heels than for- -tunes be- -fore you
M O A I; his sim- -u- -la- -tion is not as the for- -mer: nd
yet to crush this a lit- -tle it would bow to me for ev- -ery one of
these let- -ters are in my name Soft here fol- -lows prose
'If this fall in- -to thy hand re- -volve In my stars I am above
thee but be not afraid of great- -ness Some are born great some
achieve great- -ness and some have great- -ness thrust up- -on them Thy
fates open their hands let thy blood and spir- -it em- -brace them
And to in- -ure thy- -self to what thou art like to be cast thy
hum- -ble slough and ap- -pear fresh Be op- -po- -site with a kins- -man surly
with ser- -vants let thy tongue tang ar- -gu- -ments of state put
thy- -self in- -to the trick of sin- -gu- -lar- -i- -ty She thus ad- -vis- -es thee that
sighs for thee Re- -mem- -ber who com- -mend- -ed thy yel- -low stock- -ings and
wished to see thee ev- -er cross- -- -gartered I say re- -mem- -ber Go to
thou art made if thou de- -sirest to be so if not let me see thee
a stew- -ard still the fel- -low of ser- -vants and not wor- -thy to touch
for- -tune's fin- -gers Farewell She that would al- -ter ser- -vices with
thee
'The for- -tu- -nate- -un- -hap- -py.'
Day- -light and champian dis- -cov- -ers not more this is open I will be
proud I will read politic au- -thors I will baf- -fle Sir To- -by I
will wash off gross ac- -quain- -tance I will be point- -de- -vice the
very man I do not now fool my- -self to let imag- -i- -na- -tion jade me
for ev- -ery rea- -son ex- -cites to this that my la- -dy loves me She did
com- -mend my yel- -low stock- -ings of late she did praise my leg be- -ing
cross- -- -gartered and in this she man- -i- -fests her- -self to my love and
with a kind of in- -junc- -tion drives me to these habits of her
lik- -ing I thank my stars I am hap- -py I will be strange stout in
yel- -low stock- -ings and cross- -- -gartered even with the swift- -ness of
putting on Jove and my stars be praised! ere is yet a
post- -script 'Thou canst not choose but know who I am If thou
en- -ter- -tainest my love let it ap- -pear in thy smil- -ing thy smiles
be- -come thee well there- -fore in my pres- -ence still smile dear my
sweet I pr'ythee.' Jove I thank thee I will smile I will do
ev- -ery- -thing that thou wilt have me
I will not give my part of this sport for a pen- -sion of
thou- -sands to be paid from the So- -phy
SIR TO- -BY
I could mar- -ry this wench for this de- -vice
SIR AN- -DREW
So could I too
SIR TO- -BY
And ask no oth- -er dowry with her but such an- -oth- -er jest
SIR AN- -DREW
Nor I nei- -ther
Here comes my no- -ble gul- -l- -- -catch- -er
SIR TO- -BY
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
SIR AN- -DREW
Or o' mine ei- -ther?
SIR TO- -BY
Shall I play my free- -dom at tray- -trip and be- -come thy bond- -slave?
SIR AN- -DREW
I' faith or I ei- -ther?
SIR TO- -BY
Why thou hast put him in such a dream that when the
im- -age of it leaves him he must run mad
Nay but say true does it work up- -on him?
SIR TO- -BY
Like aqua- -vi- -tae with a mid- -wife
If you will then see the fruits of the sport mark his
first ap- -proach be- -fore my la- -dy he will come to her in yel- -low
stock- -ings and 'tis a colour she ab- -hors and cross- -- -gartered a
fash- -ion she de- -tests and he will smile up- -on her which will now
be so un- -suit- -able to her dis- -po- -si- -tion be- -ing ad- -dict- -ed to a
melan- -choly as she is that it can- -not but turn him in- -to a no- -table
con- -tempt if you will see it fol- -low me
SIR TO- -BY
To the gates of Tar- -tar thou most ex- -cel- -lent dev- -il of wit!
SIR AN- -DREW
I'll make one too
Save thee friend and thy mu- -sic Dost thou live by thy tabor?
No sir I live by the church
Art thou a church- -man?
No such mat- -ter sir I do live by the church for I do live
at my house and my house doth stand by the church
So thou mayst say the king lies by a beg- -gar if a beg- -gar
dwell near him or the church stands by thy ta- -bor if thy ta- -bor
stand by the church
You have said sir. o see this age! sen- -tence is but a
chev- -er- -il glove to a good wit How quick- -ly the wrong side may be
turned out- -ward!
Nay that's cer- -tain they that dal- -ly nice- -ly with words may
quick- -ly make them wan- -ton
I would there- -fore my sis- -ter had had no name sir
Why man?
Why sir her name's a word and to dal- -ly with that word
might make my sis- -ter wan- -ton But in- -deed words are very ras- -cals
since bonds dis- -graced them
Thy rea- -son man?
Troth sir I can yield you none with- -out words and words
are grown so false I am loath to prove rea- -son with them
I war- -rant thou art a mer- -ry fel- -low and carest for noth- -ing
Not so sir I do care for some- -thing but in my con- -science
sir I do not care for you if that be to care for noth- -ing sir
I would it would make you in- -vis- -i- -ble
Art not thou the La- -dy Olivi- -a's fool?
No in- -deed sir the La- -dy Olivia has no fol- -ly she will keep
no fool sir till she be mar- -ried and fools are as like hus- -bands
as pilchards are to her- -rings the hus- -band's the big- -ger I am
in- -deed not her fool but her cor- -rupter of words
I saw thee late at the Count Orsi- -no's
Fool- -ery sir does walk about the orb like the sun it
shines ev- -ery- -where I would be sor- -ry sir but the fool should be
as oft with your mas- -ter as with my mis- -tress I think I saw your
wis- -dom there
Nay an thou pass up- -on me I'll no more with thee
Hold there's ex- -pens- -es for thee
Now Jove in his next com- -mod- -i- -ty of hair send thee a beard!
By my troth I'll tell thee I am al- -most sick for one though I
would not have it grow on my chin Is thy la- -dy with- -in?
Would not a pair of these have bred sir?
Yes be- -ing kept to- -geth- -er and put to use
I would play Lord Pan- -darus of Phry- -gia sir to bring a
Cres- -si- -da to this Troilus
I un- -der- -stand you sir 'tis well begged
The mat- -ter I hope is not great sir beg- -ging but a beg- -gar
Cres- -si- -da was a beg- -gar My la- -dy is with- -in sir I will con- -strue to
them whence you come who you are and what you would are out of
my welkin I might say el- -e- -ment but the word is over- -worn
This fel- -low's wise enough to play the fool
And to do that well craves a kind of wit
He must ob- -serve their mood on whom he jests
The qual- -i- -ty of per- -sons and the time
And like the hag- -gard check at ev- -ery feath- -er
That comes be- -fore his eye This is a prac- -tice
As full of labour as a wise man's art
For fol- -ly that he wise- -ly shows is fit
But wise men fol- -ly- -- -fall- -en quite taint their wit
SIR TO- -BY
Save you gen- -tle- -man
And you sir
SIR AN- -DREW
Dieu vous garde mon- -sieur
Et vous aus- -si votre servi- -teur
SIR AN- -DREW
I hope sir you are and I am yours
SIR TO- -BY
Will you en- -counter the house? my niece is de- -sirous you
should en- -ter if your trade be to her
I am bound to your niece sir I mean she is the list of my
voy- -age
SIR TO- -BY
Taste your legs sir put them to mo- -tion
My legs do bet- -ter un- -der- -stand me sir than I un- -der- -stand what
you mean by bid- -ding me taste my legs
SIR TO- -BY
I mean to go sir to en- -ter
I will an- -swer you with gait and en- -trance but we are pre- -vent- -ed
Most ex- -cel- -lent ac- -com- -plished la- -dy the heav- -ens rain odours on you!
SIR AN- -DREW
That youth's a rare courtier 'Rain odours'! well
My mat- -ter hath no voice la- -dy but to your own most preg- -nant
and vouch- -safed car
SIR AN- -DREW
'Odours,' 'preg- -nan- -t,' and 'vouch- -safed': 'll get 'em all
three ready
Let the gar- -den door be shut and leave me to my hear- -ing
Give me your hand sir
My du- -ty madam and most hum- -ble ser- -vice
What is your name?
Ce- -sario is your ser- -van- -t's name fair princess
My ser- -vant sir! 'T- -was nev- -er mer- -ry world
Since low- -ly feign- -ing was cal- -l'd com- -pli- -ment
You are ser- -vant to the Count Orsi- -no youth
And he is yours and his must needs be yours
Your ser- -van- -t's ser- -vant is your ser- -vant madam
For him I think not on him for his thoughts
Would they were blanks rather than fil- -l'd with me!
Madam I come to whet your gen- -tle thoughts
On his be- -half
O by your leave I pray you
I bade you nev- -er speak again of him
But would you un- -der- -take an- -oth- -er suit
I had rather hear you to so- -lic- -it that
Than mu- -sic from the spheres
Dear la- -dy
Give me leave be- -seech you I did send
Af- -ter the last en- -chant- -ment you did here
A ring in chase of you so did I abuse
My- -self my ser- -vant and I fear me you
Un- -der your hard con- -struc- -tion must I sit
To force that on you in a shame- -ful cun- -ning
Which you knew none of yours What might you think?
Have you not set mine hon- -our at the stake
And bait- -ed it with all the un- -muz- -zl'd thoughts
That tyran- -nous heart can think? To one of your re- -ceiv- -ing
Enough is shown a cy- -press not a bo- -som
Hides my heart so let me hear you speak
I Pity you
That's a de- -gree to love
No not a grise for 'tis a vul- -gar proof
That very oft we pity en- -e- -mies
Why then me- -thinks 'tis time to smile again
O world how apt the poor are to be proud!
If one should be a prey how much the bet- -ter
The clock up- -braids me with the waste of time
Be not afraid good youth I will not have you
And yet when wit and youth is come to har- -vest
Your wife is like to reap a prop- -er man
There lies your way due- -west
Then west- -ward- -ho
Grace and good dis- -po- -si- -tion 'tend your la- -dy- -ship!
You'll noth- -ing madam to my lord by me?
Stay
I pr'ythee tell me what thou think'st of me
That you do think you are not what you are
If I think so I think the same of you
Then think you right I am not what I am
I would you were as I would have you be!
Would it be bet- -ter madam than I am
I wish it might for now I am your fool
O what a deal of scorn looks beau- -ti- -ful
In the con- -tempt and anger of his lip!
A mur- -d'rous guilt shows not it- -self more soon
Than love that would seem hid love's night is noon
Ce- -sario by the ros- -es of the spring
By maid- -hood hon- -our truth and ev- -ery- -thing
I love thee so that mau- -gre all thy pride
Nor wit nor rea- -son can my pas- -sion hide
Do not ex- -tort thy rea- -sons from this clause
For that I woo thou there- -fore hast no cause
But rather rea- -son thus with rea- -son fet- -ter
Love sought is good but giv- -en un- -sought is bet- -ter
By in- -no- -cence I swear and by my youth
I have one heart one bo- -som and one truth
And that no wom- -an has nor nev- -er none
Shall mis- -tress be of it save I alone
And so adieu good madam nev- -er more
Will I my mas- -ter's tears to you de- -plore
Yet come again for thou per- -haps mayst move
That heart which now ab- -hors to like his love
SIR AN- -DREW
No faith I'll not stay a jot longer
SIR TO- -BY
Thy rea- -son dear ven- -om give thy rea- -son
You must needs yield your rea- -son Sir An- -drew
SIR AN- -DREW
Mar- -ry I saw your niece do more favours to the coun- -t's
serv- -ing- -man than ev- -er she be- -stowed up- -on me I saw't i' the
or- -chard
SIR TO- -BY
Did she see thee the while old boy? tell me that
SIR AN- -DREW
As plain as I see you now
This was a great ar- -gu- -ment of love in her to- -ward you
SIR AN- -DREW
'S- -light! will you make an ass o' me?
I will prove it le- -git- -i- -mate sir up- -on the oaths of judg- -ment
and rea- -son
SIR TO- -BY
And they have been grand ju- -ry- -men since be- -fore Noah was a
sailor
She did show favour to the youth in your sight on- -ly to
ex- -as- -per- -ate you to awake your dor- -mouse val- -our to put fire in
your heart and brim- -stone in your liv- -er You should then have
ac- -cost- -ed her and with some ex- -cel- -lent jests fire- -new from the
mint you should have banged the youth in- -to dumb- -ness This was
looked for at your hand and this was baulked the dou- -ble gilt of
this op- -por- -tu- -ni- -ty you let time wash off and you are now sailed
in- -to the north of my la- -dy's opin- -ion where you will hang like an
ici- -cle on Dutch- -man's beard un- -less you do re- -deem it by some
laud- -able at- -tempt ei- -ther of val- -our or pol- -i- -cy
SIR AN- -DREW
And't be any way it must be with val- -our for pol- -i- -cy I
hate I had as lief be a Brown- -ist as a politi- -cian
SIR TO- -BY
Why then build me thy for- -tunes up- -on the ba- -sis of
val- -our Chal- -lenge me the coun- -t's youth to fight with him hurt
him in eleven places my niece shall take note of it and as- -sure
thy- -self there is no love- -bro- -ker in the world can more pre- -vail in
man's com- -men- -da- -tion with wom- -an than re- -port of val- -our
There is no way but this Sir An- -drew
SIR AN- -DREW
Will ei- -ther of you bear me a chal- -lenge to him?
SIR TO- -BY
Go write it in a mar- -tial hand be curst and brief it is
no mat- -ter how wit- -ty so it be elo- -quent and full of in- -ven- -tion
taunt him with the li- -cence of ink if thou 'thou'st' him some
thrice it shall not be amiss and as many lies as will lie in
thy sheet of pa- -per al- -though the sheet were big enough for the
bed of Ware in Eng- -land set 'em down go about it Let there be
gall enough in thy ink though thou write with a goose- -pen no
mat- -ter About it
SIR AN- -DREW
Where shall I find you?
SIR TO- -BY
We'll call thee at the cu- -bicu- -lo Go
This is a dear man- -akin to you Sir To- -by
SIR TO- -BY
I have been dear to him lad some two thou- -sand strong or so
We shall have a rare let- -ter from him but you'll not de- -liv- -er it
SIR TO- -BY
Nev- -er trust me then and by all means stir on the youth
to an an- -swer I think ox- -en and wain- -ropes can- -not hale them
to- -geth- -er For An- -drew if he were opened and you find so much
blood in his liv- -er as will clog the foot of a flea I'll eat the
rest of the anato- -my
And his op- -po- -site the youth bears in his vis- -age no great
presage of cru- -el- -ty
SIR TO- -BY
Look where the youngest wren of nine comes
If you de- -sire the spleen and will laugh your- -selves in- -to
stitch- -es fol- -low me yond gull Malvo- -lio is turned hea- -then a very
rene- -ga- -do for there is no Chris- -tian that means to be saved by
be- -liev- -ing right- -ly can ev- -er be- -lieve such im- -pos- -si- -ble pas- -sages of
gross- -ness He's in yel- -low stock- -ings
SIR TO- -BY
And cross- -- -gartered?
Most vil- -lain- -ous- -ly like a pedant that keeps a school i' the
church. have dogged him like his mur- -der- -er He does obey ev- -ery
point of the let- -ter that I dropped to be- -tray him He does smile
his face in- -to more lines than is in the new map with the
aug- -men- -ta- -tion of the In- -dies you have not seen such a thing as
'tis I can hard- -ly for- -bear hurl- -ing things at him I know my la- -dy
will strike him if she do he'll smile and take't for a great
favour
SIR TO- -BY
Come bring us bring us where he is
I would not by my will have trou- -bled you
But since you make your plea- -sure of your pains
I will no fur- -ther chide you
I could not stay be- -hind you my de- -sire
More sharp than filed steel did spur me forth
And not all love to see you, hough so much
As might have drawn one to a longer voy- -age
But jeal- -ousy what might be- -fall your trav- -el
Be- -ing skil- -less in these parts which to a stranger
Un- -guid- -ed and un- -friend- -ed of- -ten prove
Rough and un- -hos- -pitable My will- -ing love
The rather by these ar- -gu- -ments of fear
Set forth in your pur- -suit
My kind An- -to- -nio
I can no oth- -er an- -swer make but thanks
And thanks and ev- -er thanks Of- -ten good turns
Are shuf- -fled off with such un- -cur- -rent pay
But were my worth as is my con- -science firm
You should find bet- -ter deal- -ing What's to do?
Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
To- -- -mor- -row sir best first go see your lodg- -ing
I am not weary and 'tis long to night
I pray you let us sat- -is- -fy our eyes
With the memo- -ri- -als and the things of fame
That do renown this city
Would you'd par- -don me
I do not with- -out dan- -ger walk these streets
Once in a sea- -- -fight 'gainst the count his gal- -leys
I did some ser- -vice of such note in- -deed
That were I ta'en here it would scarce be an- -swered
Be- -like you slew great num- -ber of his peo- -ple
The of- -fence is not of such a bloody na- -ture
Al- -beit the qual- -i- -ty of the time and quar- -rel
Might well have giv- -en us bloody ar- -gu- -ment
It might have since been an- -swered in re- -pay- -ing
What we took from them which for traf- -fic's sake
Most of our city did on- -ly my- -self stood out
For which if I be lapsed in this place
I shall pay dear
Do not then walk too open
It doth not fit me Hold sir here's my purse
In the south sub- -urbs at the Ele- -phant
Is best to lodge I will be- -speak our di- -et
Whiles you be- -guile the time and feed your knowl- -edge
With view- -ing of the town there shall you have me
Why I your purse?
Hap- -ly your eye shall light up- -on some toy
You have de- -sire to pur- -chase and your store
I think is not for idle mar- -kets sir
I'll be your purse- -bear- -er and leave you for an hour
To the Ele- -phant
I do re- -mem- -ber
I have sent af- -ter him He says he'll come
How shall I feast him? what be- -stow on him?
For youth is bought more oft than begged or bor- -rowed
I speak too loud
Where's Malvo- -lio? e is sad and civ- -il
And suits well for a ser- -vant with my for- -tunes
Where is Malvo- -lio?
He's com- -ing madam
But in very strange man- -ner He is sure pos- -sessed
Why what's the mat- -ter? does he rave?
No madam he does noth- -ing but smile your la- -dy- -ship were
best to have some guard about you if he come
For sure the man is taint- -ed in his wits
Go call him hith- -er. 'm as mad as he
If sad and mer- -ry mad- -ness equal be
How now Malvo- -lio?
Sweet la- -dy ho ho
Smil'st thou?
I sent for thee up- -on a sad oc- -ca- -sion
Sad la- -dy? I could be sad this does make some
ob- -struc- -tion in the blood this cross- -- -gar- -ter- -ing But what of that?
If it please the eye of one it is with me as the very true
son- -net is 'Please one and please al- -l.'
Why how dost thou man? what is the mat- -ter with thee?
Not black in my mind though yel- -low in my legs
It did come to his hands and com- -mands shall be ex- -e- -cut- -ed
I think we do know the sweet Ro- -man hand
Wilt thou go to bed Malvo- -lio?
To bed? ay sweet- -heart and I'll come to thee
God com- -fort thee! Why dost thou smile so and kiss thy hand so
oft?
How do you Malvo- -lio?
At your re- -quest? Yes nightin- -gales an- -swer daws
Why ap- -pear you with this ridicu- -lous bold- -ness be- -fore my la- -dy?
'Be not afraid of great- -ness': twas well writ
What mean- -est thou by that Malvo- -lio?
'Some are born great,'
Ha?
'Some achieve great- -ness,'
What say'st thou?
'And some have great- -ness thrust up- -on them.'
Heav- -en re- -store thee!
'Re- -mem- -ber who com- -mend- -ed thy yel- -low stock- -ings;'
Thy yel- -low stock- -ings?
'And wished to see thee cross- -- -gartered.'
Cross- -- -gartered?
'Go to thou an made if thou de- -sirest to be so:'
Am I made?
'If not let me see thee a ser- -vant stil- -l.'
Why this is very mid- -sum- -mer mad- -ness
Madam the young gen- -tle- -man of the Count Orsi- -no's is
re- -turned I could hard- -ly en- -treat him back he at- -tends your
la- -dy- -ship's plea- -sure
I'll come to him
Good Maria let this fel- -low be looked to Where's my cousin To- -by?
Let some of my peo- -ple have a spe- -cial care of him I would not
have him mis- -car- -ry for the half of my dowry
O ho! do you come near me now? No worse man than Sir
To- -by to look to me? This con- -curs di- -rect- -ly with the let- -ter she
sends him on pur- -pose that I may ap- -pear stub- -born to him for she
in- -cites me to that in the let- -ter 'Cast thy hum- -ble slough,' says
she; be op- -po- -site with a kins- -man surly with ser- -vants, et thy
tongue tang with ar- -gu- -ments of state, ut thy- -self in- -to the trick
of sin- -gu- -lar- -i- -ty; nd con- -se- -quent- -ly sets down the man- -ner how as
a sad face a rev- -erend car- -riage a slow tongue in the habit of
some sir of note and so forth I have limed her but it is
Jove's do- -ing and Jove make me thank- -ful! And when she went away
now 'Let this fel- -low be looked to;' Fel- -low! not Malvo- -lio nor
af- -ter my de- -gree but fel- -low Why ev- -ery- -thing ad- -heres to- -geth- -er
that no dram of a scru- -ple no scru- -ple of a scru- -ple no ob- -sta- -cle
no in- -cred- -u- -lous or un- -safe cir- -cum- -stance, hat can be said?
Noth- -ing that can be can come be- -tween me and the full prospect
of my hopes Well Jove not I is the do- -er of this and he is to
be thanked
SIR TO- -BY
Which way is he in the name of sanc- -ti- -ty? If all the
dev- -ils of hell be drawn in lit- -tle and Le- -gion him- -self pos- -sessed
him yet I'll speak to him
Here he is here he is: ow is't with you sir? how is't with
you man?
Go off I dis- -card you let me en- -joy my pri- -vate go off
Lo how hol- -low the fiend speaks with- -in him! did not I tell
you? ir To- -by my la- -dy prays you to have a care of him
Ah ha! does she so?
SIR TO- -BY
Go to go to peace peace we must deal gen- -tly with him
let me alone How do you Malvo- -lio? how is't with you? What man!
de- -fy the dev- -il con- -sid- -er he's an en- -e- -my to mankind
Do you know what you say?
La you an you speak ill of the dev- -il how he takes it at
heart! Pray God he be not be- -witched
Car- -ry his wa- -ter to the wise wom- -an
Mar- -ry and it shall be done to- -- -mor- -row morn- -ing if I live My
la- -dy would not lose him for more than I'll say
How now mis- -tress!
O lord!
SIR TO- -BY
Pr'ythee hold thy peace this is not the way Do you not
see you move him? let me alone with him
No way but gen- -tle- -ness gen- -tly gen- -tly the fiend is rough
and will not be rough- -ly used
SIR TO- -BY
Why how now my baw- -cock? how dost thou chuck
Sir?
SIR TO- -BY
Ay Bid- -dy come with me What man! 'tis not for grav- -i- -ty
to play at cher- -ry- -pit with Sa- -tan Hang him foul col- -lier!
Get him to say his prayers good Sir To- -by get him to pray
My prayers minx?
No I war- -rant you he will not hear of god- -li- -ness
Go hang your- -selves al- -l! you are idle shal- -low things I
am not of your el- -e- -ment you shall know more here- -after
SIR TO- -BY
Is't pos- -si- -ble?
If this were played up- -on a stage now I could con- -demn it as
an im- -prob- -a- -ble fic- -tion
SIR TO- -BY
His very ge- -nius hath tak- -en the in- -fec- -tion of the de- -vice man
Nay pur- -sue him now lest the de- -vice take air and taint
Why we shall make him mad in- -deed
The house will be the qui- -eter
SIR TO- -BY
Come we'll have him in a dark room and bound My niece
is al- -ready in the be- -lief that he's mad we may car- -ry it thus for
our plea- -sure and his penance till our very pas- -time tired out of
breath prompt us to have mer- -cy on him at which time we will
bring the de- -vice to the bar and crown thee for a find- -er of
mad- -men But see but see
More mat- -ter for a May morn- -ing
SIR AN- -DREW
Here's the chal- -lenge read it I war- -rant there's vine- -gar and
pep- -per in- -'t
Is't so saucy?
SIR AN- -DREW
Ay is't I war- -rant him do but read
SIR TO- -BY
Give me [Read- -s.] 'Y- -outh what- -so- -ev- -er thou art thou art but a
scurvy fel- -low.'
Good and valiant
SIR TO- -BY
'Won- -der not nor ad- -mire not in thy mind why I do
call thee so for I will show thee no rea- -son for't.'
A good note that keeps you from the blow of the law
SIR TO- -BY
'Thou comest to the La- -dy Olivia and in my sight
she us- -es thee kind- -ly but thou li- -est in thy throat that is not
the mat- -ter I chal- -lenge thee for.'
Very brief and to ex- -ceed- -ing good sense- -less
SIR TO- -BY
'I will way- -lay thee go- -ing home where if it be
thy chance to kill me,'
SIR TO- -BY
'Thou kil- -l'st me like a rogue and a vil- -lain.'
Still you keep o' the windy side of the law Good
SIR TO- -BY
'Fare thee well and God have mer- -cy up- -on one of
our soul- -s! He may have mer- -cy up- -on mine but my hope is bet- -ter
and so look to thy- -self Thy friend as thou us- -est him and thy
sworn en- -e- -my An- -drew Ague- -Cheek.'
If this let- -ter move him not his legs can- -not I'll give't him
You may have very fit oc- -ca- -sion for't he is now in some
com- -merce with my la- -dy and will by and by de- -part
SIR TO- -BY
Go Sir An- -drew scout me for him at the cor- -ner of the
or- -chard like a bum- -bailiff so soon as ev- -er thou seest him
draw and as thou drawest swear hor- -ri- -ble for it comes to pass
oft that a ter- -ri- -ble oath with a swag- -ger- -ing ac- -cent sharply
twanged off gives man- -hood more ap- -pro- -ba- -tion than ev- -er proof
it- -self would have earned him Away
SIR AN- -DREW
Nay let me alone for swear- -ing
SIR TO- -BY
Now will not I de- -liv- -er his let- -ter for the be- -hav- -iour of
the young gen- -tle- -man gives him out to be of good ca- -pac- -i- -ty and
breed- -ing his em- -ploy- -ment be- -tween his lord and my niece con- -firms
no less there- -fore this let- -ter be- -ing so ex- -cel- -lent- -ly ig- -no- -rant
will breed no ter- -ror in the youth he will find it comes from a
clod- -pole But sir I will de- -liv- -er his chal- -lenge by word of
mouth set up- -on Ague- -cheek no- -table re- -port of val- -our and drive
the gen- -tle- -man, s I know his youth will apt- -ly re- -ceive it, nto
a most hideous opin- -ion of his rage skill fury and im- -petu- -os- -i- -ty
This will so fright them both that they will kill one an- -oth- -er by
the look like cock- -a- -tri- -ces
Here he comes with your niece give them way till he take
leave and present- -ly af- -ter him
SIR TO- -BY
I will med- -i- -tate the while up- -on some hor- -rid mes- -sage for a
chal- -lenge
I have said too much un- -to a heart of stone
And laid mine hon- -our too un- -chary on it
There's some- -thing in me that re- -proves my fault
But such a head- -strong po- -tent fault it is
That it but mocks re- -proof
With the same 'haviour that your pas- -sion bears
Goes on my mas- -ter's griefs
Here wear this jew- -el for me 'tis my pic- -ture
Refuse it not it hath no tongue to vex you
And I be- -seech you come again to- -- -mor- -row
What shall you ask of me that I'll de- -ny
That hon- -our saved may up- -on ask- -ing give?
Noth- -ing but this your true love for my mas- -ter
How with mine hon- -our may I give him that
Which I have giv- -en to you?
I will ac- -quit you
Well come again to- -- -mor- -row Fare thee well
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell
SIR TO- -BY
Gen- -tle- -man God save thee
And you sir
SIR TO- -BY
That de- -fence thou hast be- -take thee to't Of what na- -ture
the wrongs are thou hast done him I know not but thy
in- -ter- -cepter full of de- -spite bloody as the hunter at- -tends
thee at the or- -chard end dis- -mount thy tuck be yare in thy
prepa- -ra- -tion for thy as- -sailant is quick skil- -ful and dead- -ly
You mis- -take sir I am sure no man hath any quar- -rel to me
my re- -mem- -brance is very free and clear from any im- -age of of- -fence
done to any man
SIR TO- -BY
You'll find it oth- -er- -wise I as- -sure you there- -fore if you
hold your life at any price be- -take you to your guard for your
op- -po- -site hath in him what youth strength skill and wrath can
fur- -nish man with- -al
I pray you sir what is he?
SIR TO- -BY
He is knight dubbed with un- -hacked rapi- -er and on car- -pet
con- -sid- -er- -a- -tion but he is a dev- -il in pri- -vate brawl souls and
bod- -ies hath he di- -vorced three and his in- -cense- -ment at this mo- -ment
is so im- -pla- -ca- -ble that sat- -is- -fac- -tion can be none but by pangs of
death and sepul- -chre hob nob is his word give't or take't
I will re- -turn again in- -to the house and de- -sire some con- -duct
of the la- -dy I am no fight- -er I have heard of some kind of men
that put quar- -rels pur- -pose- -ly on oth- -ers to taste their val- -our
be- -like this is a man of that quirk
SIR TO- -BY
Sir no his in- -dig- -na- -tion de- -rives it- -self out of a very
com- -pe- -tent in- -jury there- -fore get you on and give him his de- -sire
Back you shall not to the house un- -less you un- -der- -take that with
me which with as much safe- -ty you might an- -swer him there- -fore on
or strip your sword stark naked for med- -dle you must that's
cer- -tain or for- -swear to wear iron about you
This is as un- -civ- -il as strange I be- -seech you do me this
cour- -te- -ous of- -fice as to know of the knight what my of- -fence to him
is it is some- -thing of my neg- -li- -gence noth- -ing of my pur- -pose
SIR TO- -BY
I Will do so Signior Fabi- -an stay you by this gen- -tle- -man
till my re- -turn
Pray you sir do you know of this mat- -ter?
I know the knight is in- -censed against you even to a mor- -tal
ar- -bi- -trement but noth- -ing of the cir- -cum- -stance more
I be- -seech you what man- -ner of man is he?
Noth- -ing of that won- -der- -ful prom- -ise to read him by his form
as you are like to find him in the proof of his val- -our He is
in- -deed sir the most skil- -ful bloody and fa- -tal op- -po- -site that
you could pos- -si- -bly have found in any part of Il- -lyr- -ia Will you
walk to- -wards him? I will make your peace with him if I can
I shall be much bound to you for't I am one that would
rather go with sir priest than sir knight I care not who knows
so much of my met- -tle
SIR TO- -BY
Why man he's a very dev- -il I have not seen such a
vi- -ra- -go I had a pass with him rapi- -er scab- -bard and all and he
gives me the stuck- -- -in with such a mor- -tal mo- -tion that it is
in- -evitable and on the an- -swer he pays you as sure- -ly as your feet
hit the ground they step on They say he has been fencer to the
SIR AN- -DREW
Pox on't I'll not med- -dle with him
SIR TO- -BY
Ay but he will not now be paci- -fied Fabi- -an can scarce
hold him yon- -der
SIR AN- -DREW
Plague on't an I thought he had been valiant and so
cun- -ning in fence I'd have seen him damned ere I'd have
chal- -lenged him Let him let the mat- -ter slip and I'll give him
my horse grey Capilet
SIR TO- -BY
I'll make the mo- -tion Stand here make a good show on't
this shall end with- -out the perdi- -tion of souls [A- -side.] Mar- -ry
I'll ride your horse as well as I ride you
I have his horse [To FABI- -AN.] to take up the quar- -rel I have
per- -suad- -ed him the youth's a dev- -il
He is as hor- -ri- -bly con- -ceit- -ed of him and pants and looks pale as
if a bear were at his heels
SIR TO- -BY
There's no rem- -e- -dy sir he will fight with you for's oath sake
mar- -ry he hath bet- -ter bethought him of his quar- -rel and he finds
that now scarce to be worth talk- -ing of there- -fore draw for the
sup- -por- -t- -ance of his vow he protests he will not hurt you
tell them how much I lack of a man
Give ground if you see him fu- -ri- -ous
SIR TO- -BY
Come Sir An- -drew there's no rem- -e- -dy the gen- -tle- -man will
for his hon- -our's sake have one bout with you he can- -not by the
du- -el- -lo avoid it but he has promised me as he is a gen- -tle- -man and
a sol- -dier he will not hurt you Come on to't
SIR AN- -DREW
Pray God he keep his oath!
I do as- -sure you 'tis against my will
Put up your sword: f this young gen- -tle- -man
Have done of- -fence I take the fault on me
If you of- -fend him I for him de- -fy you
SIR TO- -BY
You sir! why what are you?
One sir that for his love dares yet do more
Than you have heard him brag to you he will
SIR TO- -BY
Nay if you be an un- -der- -tak- -er I am for you
O good Sir To- -by hold here come the of- -fi- -cers
SIR TO- -BY
SIR AN- -DREW
Mar- -ry will I sir and for that I promised you I'll be
as good as my word He will bear you eas- -i- -ly and reins well
FIRST OF- -FI- -CER
This is the man do thy of- -fice
SEC- -OND OF- -FI- -CER
An- -to- -nio I ar- -rest thee at the suit
Of Count Orsi- -no
You do mis- -take me sir
FIRST OF- -FI- -CER
No sir no jot I know your favour well
Though now you have no sea- -- -cap on your head
Take him away he knows I know him well
I Must obey. his comes with seek- -ing you
But there's no rem- -e- -dy I shall an- -swer it
What will you do? Now my ne- -ces- -si- -ty
Makes me to ask you for my purse It grieves me
Much more for what I can- -not do for you
Than what be- -falls my- -self You stand amazed
But be of com- -fort
SEC- -OND OF- -FI- -CER
Come sir away
I must en- -treat of you some of that mon- -ey
What mon- -ey sir?
For the fair kind- -ness you have showed me here
And part be- -ing prompt- -ed by your present trou- -ble
Out of my lean and low abil- -i- -ty
I'll lend you some- -thing my hav- -ing is not much
I'll make di- -vi- -sion of my present with you
Hold there is half my cof- -fer
Will you de- -ny me now?
Is't pos- -si- -ble that my deserts to you
Can lack per- -sua- -sion? Do not tempt my mis- -ery
Lest that it make me so un- -sound a man
As to up- -braid you with those kind- -ness- -es
That I have done for you
I know of none
Nor know I you by voice or any fea- -ture
I hate in- -grat- -i- -tude more in a man
Than ly- -ing vain- -ness bab- -bling drunk- -en- -ness
Or any taint of vice whose strong cor- -rup- -tion
In- -hab- -its our frail blood
O heav- -ens them- -selves!
SEC- -OND OF- -FI- -CER
Come sir I pray you go
Let me speak a lit- -tle This youth that you see here
I snatched one half out of the jaws of death
Re- -lieved him with such sanc- -ti- -ty of love
And to his im- -age which methought did prom- -ise
Most ven- -er- -a- -ble worth did I de- -vo- -tion
FIRST OF- -FI- -CER
What's that to us? The time goes by away
But O how vile an idol proves this god!
Thou hast Se- -bas- -tian done good fea- -ture shame
In na- -ture there's no blem- -ish but the mind
None can be cal- -l'd de- -for- -m'd but the un- -kind
Virtue is beau- -ty but the beau- -teous- -evil
Are emp- -ty trunks o'er- -flour- -ished by the dev- -il
FIRST OF- -FI- -CER
The man grows mad away with him Come come sir
Lead me on
Me- -thinks his words do from such pas- -sion fly
That he be- -lieves him- -self so do not I
Prove true imag- -i- -na- -tion O prove true
That I dear broth- -er be now ta'en for you!
SIR TO- -BY
Come hith- -er knight come hith- -er Fabi- -an we'll whis- -per
o'er a cou- -plet or two of most sage saws
He named Se- -bas- -tian I my broth- -er know
Yet liv- -ing in my glass even such and so
In favour was my broth- -er and he went
Still in this fash- -ion colour or- -na- -ment
For him I im- -i- -tate O if it prove
Tem- -pests are kind and salt waves fresh in love!
SIR TO- -BY
A very dis- -hon- -est pal- -try boy and more a cow- -ard than a
hare his dis- -hon- -esty ap- -pears in leav- -ing his friend here in
ne- -ces- -si- -ty and deny- -ing him and for his cow- -ard- -ship ask Fabi- -an
A cow- -ard a most de- -vout cow- -ard re- -li- -gious in it
SIR AN- -DREW
'S- -lid I'll af- -ter him again and beat him
SIR TO- -BY
Do cuff him sound- -ly but nev- -er draw thy sword
SIR AN- -DREW
And I do not
Come let's see the event
SIR TO- -BY
I dare lay any mon- -ey 'twill be noth- -ing yet
Will you make me be- -lieve that I am not sent for you?
Go to go to thou art a fool- -ish fel- -low
Let me be clear of thee
Well held out i' faith! No I do not know you nor I am not
sent to you by my la- -dy to bid you come speak with her nor your
name is not Mas- -ter Ce- -sario nor this is not my nose nei- -ther
Noth- -ing that is so is so
I pr'ythee vent thy fol- -ly some- -where else Thou know'st not me
Vent my fol- -ly! he has heard that word of some great man and
now ap- -plies it to a fool Vent my fol- -ly! I am afraid this great
lub- -ber the world will prove a cock- -ney. pr'ythee now un- -gird
thy strange- -ness and tell me what I shall vent to my la- -dy Shall
I vent to her that thou art com- -ing?
I pr'ythee fool- -ish Greek de- -part from me
There's mon- -ey for thee if you tar- -ry longer
I shall give worse pay- -ment
By my troth thou hast an open hand: hese wise men that
give fools mon- -ey get them- -selves a good re- -port af- -ter four- -teen
years' pur- -chase
SIR AN- -DREW
Now sir have I met you again? there's for you
Why there's for thee and there and there
Are all the peo- -ple mad?
SIR TO- -BY
Hold sir or I'll throw your dag- -ger o'er the house
This will I tell my la- -dy straight I would not be in some of
your coats for twopence
SIR TO- -BY
Come on sir hold
SIR AN- -DREW
Nay let him alone I'll go an- -oth- -er way to work with
him I'll have an ac- -tion of bat- -tery against him if there be any
law in Il- -lyr- -ia though I struck him first yet it's no mat- -ter for
that
Let go thy hand
SIR TO- -BY
Come sir I will not let you go Come my young sol- -dier
put up your iron you are well fleshed come on
I will be free from thee What wouldst thou now?
If thou dar'st tempt me fur- -ther draw thy sword
SIR TO- -BY
What what? Nay then I must have an ounce or two of this
malapert blood from you
Hold To- -by on thy life I charge thee hold
SIR TO- -BY
Madam?
Will it be ev- -er thus? Un- -gra- -cious wretch
Fit for the moun- -tains and the bar- -barous caves
Where man- -ners ne'er were preach'd! Out of my sight!
Be not of- -fend- -ed dear Ce- -sar- -i- -o!
Rudes- -by be gone! pr'ythee gen- -tle friend
Let thy fair wis- -dom not thy pas- -sion sway
In this un- -civ- -il and un- -just ex- -tent
Against thy peace Go with me to my house
And hear thou there how many fruit- -less pranks
This ruf- -fi- -an hath botch'd up that thou there- -by
Mayst smile at this thou shalt not choose but go
Do not de- -ny Beshrew his soul for me
He start- -ed one poor heart of mine in thee
What rel- -ish is in this? how runs the stream?
Or I am mad/ or else this is a dream
Let fan- -cy still my sense in Lethe steep
If it be thus to dream still let me sleep!
Nay come I pr'ythee Would thou'dst be ruled by me!
Madam I will
O say so and so be!
Nay I pr'ythee put on this gown and this beard make him
be- -lieve thou art Sir Topas the cu- -rate do it quick- -ly I'll call
Sir To- -by the whilst
Well I'll put it on and I will dis- -sem- -ble my- -self in- -'t and
I would I were the first that ev- -er dis- -sem- -bled in such a gown I
am not tall enough to be- -come the func- -tion well nor lean enough
to be thought a good stu- -dent but to be said an hon- -est man and a
good house- -keep- -er goes as fair- -ly as to say a care- -ful man and a
great schol- -ar The com- -peti- -tors en- -ter
SIR TO- -BY
Jove bless thee Mas- -ter Par- -son
Bonos dies Sir To- -by for as the old her- -mit of Prague that
nev- -er saw pen and ink very wit- -ti- -ly said to a niece of King
Gor- -bo- -duc 'That that is is' so I be- -ing mas- -ter par- -son am
mas- -ter par- -son for what is that but that? and is but is?
SIR TO- -BY
To him Sir Topas
What hoa I say, eace in this pris- -on!
SIR TO- -BY
The knave coun- -ter- -feits well a good knave
Sir Topas the cu- -rate who comes to vis- -it Malvo- -lio the
lu- -natic
Sir Topas Sir Topas good Sir Topas go to my la- -dy
Out hy- -per- -bol- -i- -cal fiend! how vex- -est thou this man? talk- -est thou
noth- -ing but of ladies?
SIR TO- -BY
Well said mas- -ter par- -son
Sir Topas nev- -er was man thus wronged good Sir Topas do
not think I am mad they have laid me here in hideous dark- -ness
Fie thou dis- -hon- -est Sathan! I call thee by the most mod- -est
terms for I am one of those gen- -tle ones that will use the dev- -il
him- -self with cour- -tesy Say'st thou that house is dark?
As hell Sir Topas
Why it hath bay win- -dows trans- -par- -ent as bar- -ri- -ca- -does and the
clear storeys to- -ward the south- -north are as lus- -trous as ebony
and yet com- -plainest thou of ob- -struc- -tion?
I am not mad Sir Topas I say to you this house is dark
Mad- -man thou er- -rest I say there is no dark- -ness but
ig- -no- -rance in which thou art more puz- -zled than the Egyp- -tians in
their fog
I say this house is as dark as ig- -no- -rance though
ig- -no- -rance were as dark as hell and I say there was nev- -er man
thus abused I am no more mad than you are make the tri- -al of it
in any con- -stant ques- -tion
What is the opin- -ion of Pythago- -ras con- -cern- -ing wild- -- -fowl?
That the soul of our grandam might hap- -ly in- -hab- -it a bird
What think- -est thou of his opin- -ion?
I think nobly of the soul and no way ap- -prove his opin- -ion
Fare thee well Re- -main thou still in dark- -ness thou shalt
hold the opin- -ion of Pythago- -ras ere I will al- -low of thy wits and
fear to kill a wood- -cock lest thou dis- -pos- -sess the soul of thy
grandam Fare thee well
Sir Topas Sir Topas!
SIR TO- -BY
My most ex- -quis- -ite Sir Topas!
Nay I am for all wa- -ters
Thou mightst have done this with- -out thy beard and gown he
sees thee not
SIR TO- -BY
To him in thine own voice and bring me word how thou
find- -est him I would we were well rid of this knav- -ery If he may
be con- -ve- -nient- -ly de- -liv- -ered I would he were for I am now so far
in of- -fence with my niece that I can- -not pur- -sue with any safe- -ty
this sport to the up- -shot Come by and by to my cham- -ber
Tell me how thy la- -dy does.'
Fool
'My la- -dy is un- -kind perdy.'
Fool
'Alas why is she so?'
Fool I say
'She loves an- -oth- -er' ho calls ha?
Good fool as ev- -er thou wilt de- -serve well at my hand
help me to a can- -dle and pen ink and pa- -per as I am a
gen- -tle- -man I will live to be thank- -ful to thee for't
Mas- -ter Malvo- -lio!
Ay good fool
Alas sir how fell you be- -sides your five wit- -s?
Fool there was nev- -er man so no- -to- -ri- -ous- -ly abused I am as well in
my wits fool as thou art
But as well? then you are mad in- -deed if you be no bet- -ter in
your wits than a fool
They have here prop- -er- -tied me keep me in dark- -ness send
min- -is- -ters to me ass- -es and do all they can to face me out of my
wits
Ad- -vise you what you say the min- -is- -ter is here. alvo- -lio thy
wits the heav- -ens re- -store! en- -deav- -our thy- -self to sleep and leave
thy vain bib- -ble- -bab- -ble
Sir Topas
Main- -tain no words with him good fel- -low Who I sir? not
I sir God b' wi' you good Sir Topas. ar- -ry amen. will
sir I will
Fool fool fool I say
Alas sir be pa- -tient What say you sir? I am shent for
speak- -ing to you
Good fool help me to some light and some pa- -per
I tell thee I am as well in my wits as any man in Il- -lyr- -ia
Well- -a- -- -day, hat you were sir!
By this hand I am Good fool some ink pa- -per and
light and con- -vey what I will set down to my la- -dy it shall
ad- -van- -tage thee more than ev- -er the bear- -ing of let- -ter did
I will help you to't But tell me true are you not mad
in- -deed? or do you but coun- -ter- -feit?
Be- -lieve me I am not I tell thee true
Nay I'll ne'er be- -lieve a mad- -man till I see his brains
I will fetch you light and pa- -per and ink
Fool I'll re- -quite it in the high- -est de- -gree I pr'ythee be
gone
'I am gone sir
And anon sir
I'll be with you again
In a trice
Like to the old vice
Your need to sus- -tain
Who with dag- -ger of lath
In his rage and his wrath
Cries ah ha! to the dev- -il
Like a mad lad
Pare thy nails dad
Adieu good- -man driv- -el
This is the air that is the glo- -ri- -ous sun
This pearl she gave me I do feel't and see't
And though 'tis won- -der that en- -wraps me thus
Yet 'tis not mad- -ness Where's An- -to- -nio then?
I could not find him at the Ele- -phant
Yet there he was and there I found this cred- -it
That he did range the town to seek me out
His coun- -sel now might do me gold- -en ser- -vice
For though my soul dis- -putes well with my sense
That this may be some er- -ror but no mad- -ness
Yet doth this ac- -ci- -dent and flood of for- -tune
So far ex- -ceed all in- -stance all dis- -course
That I am ready to dis- -trust mine eyes
And wran- -gle with my rea- -son that per- -suades me
To any oth- -er trust but that I am mad
Or else the la- -dy's mad yet if 'twere so
She could not sway her house com- -mand her fol- -low- -ers
Take and give back af- -fairs and their despatch
With such a smooth dis- -creet and sta- -ble bear- -ing
As I per- -ceive she does there's some- -thing in- -'t
That is de- -ceiv- -able But here comes the la- -dy
Blame not this haste of mine If you mean well
Now go with me and with this holy man
In- -to the chantry by there be- -fore him
And un- -der- -neath that con- -se- -crat- -ed roof
Plight me the full as- -sur- -ance of your faith
That my most jeal- -ous and too doubt- -ful soul
May live at peace He shall con- -ceal it
Whiles you are will- -ing it shall come to note
What time we will our cel- -e- -bra- -tion keep
Ac- -cord- -ing to my birth. hat do you say?
I'll fol- -low this good man and go with you
And hav- -ing sworn truth ev- -er will be true
Then lead the way good fa- -ther; nd heav- -ens so shine
That they may fair- -ly note this act of mine!
Now as thou lovest me let me see his let- -ter
Good Mas- -ter Fabi- -an grant me an- -oth- -er re- -quest
Do not de- -sire to see this let- -ter
This is to give a dog and in rec- -om- -pense de- -sire my dog again
Be- -long you to the La- -dy Olivia friend- -s?
Ay sir we are some of her trap- -pings
I know thee well How dost thou my good fel- -low?
Tru- -ly sir the bet- -ter for my foes and the worse for my friends
Just the con- -trary the bet- -ter for thy friends
No sir the worse
How can that be?
Mar- -ry sir they praise me and make an ass of me now my
foes tell me plain- -ly I am an ass so that by my foes sir I
prof- -it in the knowl- -edge of my- -self and by my friends I am abused
so that con- -clu- -sions to be as kiss- -es if your four neg- -a- -tives make
your two af- -fir- -ma- -tives why then the worse for my friends and
the bet- -ter for my foes
Why this is ex- -cel- -lent
By my troth sir no though it please you to be one of my
friends
Thou shalt not be the worse for me there's gold
But that it would be dou- -ble- -deal- -ing sir I would you could
make it an- -oth- -er
O you give me ill coun- -sel
Put your grace in your pock- -et sir for this once and let
your flesh and blood obey it
Well I will be so much a sin- -ner to be a dou- -ble- -deal- -er there's
an- -oth- -er
Pri- -mo se- -cun- -do ter- -tio is a good play and the old say- -ing
is the third pays for all the triplex sir is a good trip- -ping
mea- -sure or the bells of Saint Ben- -net sir may put you in mind
one two three
You can fool no more mon- -ey out of me at this throw if you
will let your la- -dy know I am here to speak with her and bring
her along with you it may awake my boun- -ty fur- -ther
Mar- -ry sir lul- -la- -by to your boun- -ty till I come again I go
sir but I would not have you to think that my de- -sire of hav- -ing
is the sin of cov- -etous- -ness but as you say sir let your boun- -ty
take a nap I will awake it anon
Here comes the man sir that did res- -cue me
That face of his I do re- -mem- -ber well
Yet when I saw it last it was be- -smeared
As black as Vul- -can in the smoke of war
A baw- -bling ves- -sel was he cap- -tain of
For shal- -low draught and bulk un- -priz- -able
With which such scath- -ful grap- -ple did he make
With the most no- -ble bot- -tom of our fleet
That very en- -vy and the tongue of los
Cried fame and hon- -our on him. hat's the mat- -ter?
FIRST OF- -FI- -CER
Orsi- -no this is that An- -to- -nio
That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Can- -dy
And this is he that did the Tiger board
When your young nephew Ti- -tus lost his leg
Here in the streets des- -per- -ate of shame and state
In pri- -vate brab- -ble did we ap- -pre- -hend him
He did me kind- -ness sir drew on my side
But in con- -clu- -sion put strange speech up- -on me
I know not what 't- -was but dis- -trac- -tion
No- -table pi- -rate! thou salt- -wa- -ter thief!
What fool- -ish bold- -ness brought thee to their mer- -cies
Whom thou in terms so bloody and so dear
Hast made thine en- -e- -mies?
Orsi- -no no- -ble sir
Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me
An- -to- -nio nev- -er yet was thief or pi- -rate
Though I con- -fess on base and ground enough
Orsi- -no's en- -e- -my A witch- -craft drew me hith- -er
That most in- -grate- -ful boy there by your side
From the rude sea's en- -raged and foamy mouth
Did I re- -deem a wreck past hope he was
His life I gave him and did there- -to add
My love with- -out re- -ten- -tion or re- -straint
All his in ded- -i- -ca- -tion for his sake
Did I ex- -pose my- -self pure for his love
In- -to the dan- -ger of this ad- -verse town
Drew to de- -fend him when he was be- -set
Where be- -ing ap- -pre- -hend- -ed his false cun- -ning
Not mean- -ing to par- -take with me in dan- -ger
Taught him to face me out of his ac- -quain- -tance
And grew a twen- -ty- -years- -re- -moved thing
While one would wink de- -nied me mine own purse
Which I had rec- -om- -mend- -ed to his use
Not half an hour be- -fore
How can this be?
When came he to this town?
To- -- -day my lord and for three months be- -fore
No in- -ter- -im not a min- -ute's va- -can- -cy
Both day and night did we keep com- -pa- -ny
Here comes the count- -ess now heav- -en walks on earth
But for thee fel- -low fel- -low thy words are mad- -ness
Three months this youth hath tend- -ed up- -on me
But more of that anon. ake him aside
What would my lord but that he may not have
Where- -in Olivia may seem ser- -vice- -able!
Ce- -sario you do not keep prom- -ise with me
Madam?
Gra- -cious Olivia
What do you say Ce- -sar- -i- -o? ood my lord
My lord would speak my du- -ty hush- -es me
If it be aught to the old tune my lord
It is as fat and ful- -some to mine ear
As howl- -ing af- -ter mu- -sic
Still so cru- -el?
Still so con- -stant lord
What! to per- -verse- -ness? you un- -civ- -il la- -dy
To whose in- -grate and unaus- -pi- -cious al- -tars
My soul the faith- -ful- -l'st of- -fer- -ings hath breathed out
That e'er de- -vo- -tion ten- -der'd! What shall I do?
Even what it please my lord that shall be- -come him
Why should I not had I the heart to do it
Like to the Egyp- -tian thief at point of death
Kill what I love a sav- -age jeal- -ousy
That some- -time savours nobly. ut hear me this
Since you to non- -re- -gar- -dance cast my faith
And that I part- -ly know the in- -stru- -ment
That screws me from my true place in your favour
Live you the mar- -ble- -breast- -ed tyrant still
But this your min- -ion whom I know you love
And whom by heav- -en I swear I ten- -der dear- -ly
Him will I tear out of that cru- -el eye
Where he sits crowned in his mas- -ter's sprite
Come boy with me my thoughts are ripe in mis- -chief
I'll sac- -ri- -fice the lamb that I do love
To spite a raven's heart with- -in a dove
And I most jo- -cund apt and will- -ing- -ly
To do you rest a thou- -sand deaths would die
Where goes Ce- -sar- -i- -o?
Af- -ter him I love
More than I love these eyes more than my life
More by all mores than e'er I shall love wife
If I do feign you wit- -ness- -es above
Pun- -ish my life for taint- -ing of my love!
Ah me de- -test- -ed! how am I be- -guil'd!
Who does be- -guile you? who does do you wrong?
Hast thou for- -got thy- -self? Is it so long?
Call forth the holy fa- -ther
Whith- -er my lord? Ce- -sario hus- -band stay
Hus- -band?
Ay hus- -band can he that deny?
Her hus- -band sir- -rah?
No my lord not I
Alas it is the base- -ness of thy fear
That makes thee stran- -gle thy pro- -pri- -ety
Fear not Ce- -sario take thy for- -tunes up
Be that thou know'st thou art and then thou art
As great as that thou fear'st wel- -come fa- -ther!
Fa- -ther I charge thee by thy rev- -er- -ence
Here to un- -fold, hough late- -ly we in- -tend- -ed
To keep in dark- -ness what oc- -ca- -sion now
Re- -veals be- -fore 'tis ripe, hat thou dost know
Hath new- -ly passed be- -tween this youth and me
A con- -tract of eter- -nal bond of love
Con- -firmed by mu- -tu- -al join- -der of your hands
At- -test- -ed by the holy close of lips
Strength- -en'd by in- -ter- -change- -ment of your rings
And all the cer- -e- -mo- -ny of this com- -pact
Sealed in my func- -tion by my tes- -ti- -mo- -ny
Since when my watch hath told me to- -ward my grave
I have trav- -elled but two hours
O thou dis- -sem- -bling cub! What wilt thou be
When time hath sowed a griz- -zle on thy case?
Or will not else thy craft so quick- -ly grow
That thine own trip shall be thine over- -throw?
Farewell and take her but di- -rect thy feet
Where thou and I hence- -forth may nev- -er meet
My lord I do protest
O do not swear
Hold lit- -tle faith though thou has too much fear
SIR AN- -DREW
For the love of God a sur- -geon send one present- -ly to Sir To- -by
What's the mat- -ter?
SIR AN- -DREW
He has broke my head across and has giv- -en Sir To- -by a
bloody cox- -comb too for the love of God your help I had rather
than forty pound I were at home
Who has done this Sir An- -drew?
SIR AN- -DREW
The Coun- -t's gen- -tle- -man one Ce- -sario we took him for a
cow- -ard but he's the very dev- -il in- -car- -di- -nate
My gen- -tle- -man Ce- -sar- -i- -o?
SIR AN- -DREW
Od's lifel- -ings here he is: ou broke my head for
noth- -ing and that that I did I was set on to do't by Sir To- -by
Why do you speak to me? I nev- -er hurt you
You drew your sword up- -on me with- -out cause
But I be- -spake you fair and hurt you not
SIR AN- -DREW
If a bloody cox- -comb be a hurt you have hurt me I think
you set noth- -ing by a bloody cox- -comb
Here comes Sir To- -by halt- -ing you shall hear more but if he had
not been in drink he would have tick- -led you oth- -er- -gates than he
did
How now gen- -tle- -man? how is't with you?
SIR TO- -BY
That's all one he has hurt me and there's the end on't
Sot didst see Dick Sur- -geon sot?
O he's drunk Sir To- -by an hour agone his eyes were set at
eight i' the morn- -ing
SIR TO- -BY
Then he's a rogue Af- -ter a passy- -mea- -sure or a pavin I hate a
drunk- -en rogue
Away with him Who hath made this hav- -oc with them?
SIR AN- -DREW
I'll help you Sir To- -by be- -cause we'll be dressed to- -geth- -er
SIR TO- -BY
Will you help an as- -s- -- -head and a cox- -comb and a knave? a
thin- -- -faced knave a gul- -l?
Get him to bed and let his hurt be looked to
I am sor- -ry madam I have hurt your kins- -man
But had it been the broth- -er of my blood
I must have done no less with wit and safe- -ty
You throw a strange re- -gard up- -on me and by that
I do per- -ceive it hath of- -fend- -ed you
Par- -don me sweet one even for the vows
We made each oth- -er but so late ago
One face one voice one habit and two per- -sons
A nat- -u- -ral per- -spec- -tive that is and is not
An- -to- -nio O my dear An- -to- -nio!
How have the hours rack- -'d and tor- -tur'd me
Since I have lost thee
Se- -bas- -tian are you?
Fear'st thou that An- -to- -nio?
How have you made di- -vi- -sion of your- -self?
An ap- -ple cleft in two is not more twin
Than these two crea- -tures Which is Se- -bas- -tian?
Most won- -der- -ful!
Do I stand there? I nev- -er had a broth- -er
Nor can there be that de- -ity in my na- -ture
Of here and ev- -ery- -where I had a sis- -ter
Whom the blind waves and surges have de- -voured
What coun- -try- -man what name what parent- -age?
Of Mes- -saline Se- -bas- -tian was my fa- -ther
Such a Se- -bas- -tian was my broth- -er too
So went he suit- -ed to his wa- -tery tomb
If spir- -its can as- -sume both form and suit
You come to fright us
A spir- -it I am in- -deed
But am in that di- -men- -sion gross- -ly clad
Which from the womb I did par- -tic- -i- -pate
Were you a wom- -an as the rest goes even
I should my tears let fall up- -on your cheek
And say hrice wel- -come drowned Vi- -o- -la!
My fa- -ther had a mole up- -on his brow
And so had mine
And died that day when Vi- -o- -la from her birth
Had num- -bered thir- -teen years
O that record is live- -ly in my soul!
He fin- -ished in- -deed his mor- -tal act
That day that made my sis- -ter thir- -teen years
If noth- -ing lets to make us hap- -py both
But this my mas- -cu- -line usurp'd at- -tire
Do not em- -brace me till each cir- -cum- -stance
Of place time for- -tune do co- -here and jump
That I am Vi- -o- -la which to con- -firm
I'll bring you to a cap- -tain in this town
Where lie my maid- -en weeds by whose gen- -tle help
I was pre- -serv'd to serve this no- -ble count
All the oc- -cur- -rence of my for- -tune since
Hath been be- -tween this la- -dy and this lord
But na- -ture to her bias drew in that
You would have been con- -tract- -ed to a maid
Nor are you there- -in by my life de- -ceived
You are be- -troth'd both to a maid and man
Be not amazed right no- -ble is his blood
If this be so as yet the glass seems true
I shall have share in this most hap- -py wreck
Thou nev- -er shouldst love wom- -an like to me
And all those say- -ings will I over- -swear
And all those swear- -ings keep as true in soul
As doth that orbed con- -ti- -nent the fire
That sev- -ers day from night
Give me thy hand
And let me see thee in thy wom- -an's weeds
The cap- -tain that did bring me first on shore
Hath my maid- -'s gar- -ments he up- -on some ac- -tion
Is now in du- -rance at Malvo- -lio's suit
A gen- -tle- -man and fol- -low- -er of my la- -dy's
He shall en- -large him: etch Malvo- -lio hith- -er
And yet alas now I re- -mem- -ber me
They say poor gen- -tle- -man he's much dis- -tract
A most ex- -tract- -ing fren- -zy of mine own
From my re- -mem- -brance clear- -ly ban- -ished his
How does he sir- -rah?
Tru- -ly madam he holds Belze- -bub at the stave's end as well
as a man in his case may do he has here writ a let- -ter to you I
should have giv- -en it you to- -- -day morn- -ing but as a mad- -man's
epis- -tles are no gospels so it skills not much when they are
de- -liv- -ered
Open it and read it
Look then to be well ed- -i- -fied when the fool de- -liv- -ers the
mad- -man: By the Lord madam,
How now! art thou mad?
No madam I do but read mad- -ness an your la- -dy- -ship will have
it as it ought to be you must al- -low vox
Pr'ythee read i' thy right wits
So I do madon- -na but to read his right wits is to read
thus there- -fore per- -pend my princess and give ear
shall know it though you have put me in- -to dark- -ness and giv- -en
your drunk- -en cousin rule over me yet have I the ben- -e- -fit of my
sens- -es as well as your la- -dy- -ship I have your own let- -ter that
in- -duced me to the sem- -blance I put on with the which I doubt not
but to do my- -self much right or you much shame Think of me as you
please I leave my du- -ty a lit- -tle un- -thought of and speak out of
my in- -jury
The mad- -ly- -used Malvo- -lio'
Did he write this?
Ay madam
This savours not much of dis- -trac- -tion
See him de- -liv- -ered Fabi- -an bring him hith- -er
My lord so please you these things fur- -ther thought on
To think me as well a sis- -ter as a wife
One day shall crown the al- -liance on't so please you
Here at my house and at my prop- -er cost
Madam I am most apt to em- -brace your of- -fer
So much against the met- -tle of your sex
So far be- -neath your soft and ten- -der breed- -ing
And since you called me mas- -ter for so long
Here is my hand you shall from this time be
You mas- -ter's mis- -tress
A sis- -ter? ou are she
Is this the mad- -man?
Ay my lord this same
How now Malvo- -lio?
Madam you have done me wrong
No- -to- -ri- -ous wrong
Have I Malvo- -lio? no
La- -dy you have Pray you pe- -ruse that let- -ter
You must not now de- -ny it is your hand
Write from it if you can in hand or phrase
Or say 'tis not your seal not your in- -ven- -tion
You can say none of this Well grant it then
And tell me in the mod- -esty of hon- -our
Why you have giv- -en me such clear lights of favour
Bade me come smil- -ing and cross- -- -garter'd to you
To put on yel- -low stock- -ings and to frown
Up- -on Sir To- -by and the lighter peo- -ple
And act- -ing this in an obe- -di- -ent hope
Why have you suf- -fer- -'d me to be im- -pris- -on'd
Kept in a dark house vis- -it- -ed by the priest
And made the most no- -to- -ri- -ous geck and gull
That e'er in- -ven- -tion played on? tell me why
Alas Malvo- -lio this is not my writ- -ing
Though I con- -fess much like the char- -ac- -ter
But out of ques- -tion 'tis Mari- -a's hand
And now I do be- -think me it was she
First told me thou wast mad then cam'st in smil- -ing
And in such forms which here were pre- -sup- -pos'd
Up- -on thee in the let- -ter Pr'ythee be con- -tent
This prac- -tice hath most shrewd- -ly pass'd up- -on thee
But when we know the grounds and au- -thors of it
Thou shalt be both the plain- -tiff and the judge
Of thine own cause
Good madam hear me speak
And let no quar- -rel nor no brawl to come
Taint the con- -di- -tion of this present hour
Which I have won- -der'd at In hope it shall not
Most freely I con- -fess my- -self and To- -by
Set this de- -vice against Malvo- -lio here
Up- -on some stub- -born and un- -cour- -te- -ous parts
We had con- -ceiv'd against him Maria writ
The let- -ter at Sir To- -by's great im- -por- -tance
In rec- -om- -pense where- -of he hath mar- -ried her
How with a sport- -ful mal- -ice it was fol- -low'd
May rather pluck on laugh- -ter than re- -venge
If that the in- -juries be just- -ly weigh'd
That have on both sides past
Alas poor fool! how have they baf- -fled thee!
Why 'some are born great some achieve great- -ness and some
have great- -ness thrown up- -on them.' I was one sir in this
in- -ter- -lude;: ne Sir Topas sir but that's all one: By the
Lord fool I am not mad;' ut do you re- -mem- -ber? 'Madam why
laugh you at such a bar- -ren ras- -cal? An you smile not he's
gagged'? And thus the whirligig of time brings in his re- -venges
I'll be re- -venged on the whole pack of you
He hath been most no- -to- -ri- -ous- -ly abus'd
Pur- -sue him and en- -treat him to a peace
He hath not told us of the cap- -tain yet
When that is known and gold- -en time con- -vents
A solemn com- -bi- -na- -tion shall be made
Of our dear soul- -s. ean- -time sweet sis- -ter
We will not part from hence. esario come
For so you shall be while you are a man
But when in oth- -er habits you are seen
Orsi- -no's mis- -tress and his fan- -cy's queen
Song
When that I was and a lit- -tle tiny boy
With hey ho the wind and the rain
A fool- -ish thing was but a toy
For the rain it raineth ev- -ery day
But when I came to man's es- -tate
With hey ho the wind and the rain
'Gainst knave and thief men shut their gate
For the rain it raineth ev- -ery day
But when I came alas! to wive
With hey ho the wind and the rain
By swag- -ger- -ing could I nev- -er thrive
For the rain it raineth ev- -ery day
But when I came un- -to my bed
With hey ho the wind and the rain
With toss- -pots still had drunk- -en head
For the rain it raineth ev- -ery day
A great while ago the world be- -gun
With hey ho the wind and the rain
But that's all one our play is done
And we'll strive to please you ev- -ery day