Is this a hol- -i- -day? What know you not
Be- -ing me- -chan- -i- -cal you ought not walk
Of your pro- -fes- -sion? Speak what trade art thou?
What dost thou with thy best ap- -par- -el on?
neat's leather have gone up- -on my hand- -i- -work
But where- -fore art not in thy shop to- -day?
Why dost thou lead these men about the street- -s?
Tru- -ly sir to wear out their shoes to get
Where- -fore re- -joice? What con- -quest brings he home?
You blocks you stones you worse than sense- -less things!
O you hard hearts you cru- -el men of Rome
Knew you not Pom- -pey? Many a time and oft
Have you climb'd up to walls and bat- -tle- -ments
Your in- -fants in your arms and there have sat
To see great Pom- -pey pass the streets of Rome
And do you now put on your best at- -tire?
And do you now cull out a hol- -i- -day?
And do you now strew flow- -ers in his way
Run to your hous- -es fall up- -on your knees
Pray to the gods to in- -ter- -mit the plague
That needs must light on this in- -grat- -i- -tude
Go go good coun- -try- -men and for this fault
As- -sem- -ble all the poor men of your sort
In- -to the chan- -nel till the low- -est stream
Do kiss the most ex- -alt- -ed shores of all
Go you down that way to- -wards the Capi- -tol
You know it is the feast of Lu- -per- -cal
So do you too where you per- -ceive them thick
Stand you di- -rect- -ly in An- -to- -nio's way
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
I hear a tongue shriller than all the mu- -sic
Cry "Cae- -sar." Speak Cae- -sar is turn'd to hear
Set him be- -fore me let me see his face
He is a dream- -er let us leave him Pass
Will you go see the or- -der of the course?
I am not game- -some I do lack some part
Let me not hin- -der Cas- -sius your de- -sires
Bru- -tus I do ob- -serve you now of late
I have not from your eyes that gen- -tle- -ness
And show of love as I was wont to have
You bear too stub- -born and too strange a hand
Be not de- -ceived if I have veil'd my look
I turn the trou- -ble of my coun- -te- -nance
Of late with pas- -sions of some dif- -fer- -ence
Con- -cep- -tions on- -ly prop- -er to my- -self
But let not there- -fore my good friends be grieved
Than that poor Bru- -tus with him- -self at war
For- -gets the shows of love to oth- -er men
By means where- -of this breast of mine hath buried
Tell me good Bru- -tus can you see your face?
No Cas- -sius for the eye sees not it- -self
But by re- -flec- -tion by some oth- -er things
That you have no such mir- -rors as will turn
Your hid- -den wor- -thi- -ness in- -to your eye
That you might see your shad- -ow I have heard
Have wish'd that no- -ble Bru- -tus had his eyes
That you would have me seek in- -to my- -self
There- -fore good Bru- -tus be pre- -pared to hear
And since you know you can- -not see your- -self
So well as by re- -flec- -tion I your glass
Will mod- -est- -ly dis- -cov- -er to your- -self
That of your- -self which you yet know not of
Were I a com- -mon laugh- -er or did use
To ev- -ery new pro- -test- -er if you know
That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
And af- -ter scan- -dal them or if you know
That I pro- -fess my- -self in ban- -quet- -ing
To all the rout then hold me dan- -ger- -ous
Then must I think you would not have it so
I would not Cas- -sius yet I love him well
But where- -fore do you hold me here so long?
What is it that you would im- -part to me?
For let the gods so speed me as I love
The name of hon- -or more than I fear death
I know that virtue to be in you Bru- -tus
I can- -not tell what you and oth- -er men
Think of this life but for my sin- -gle self
I had as lief not be as live to be
In awe of such a thing as I my- -self
I was born free as Cae- -sar so were you
We both have fed as well and we can both
En- -dure the win- -ter's cold as well as he
Cae- -sar said to me "Darest thou Cas- -sius now
Leap in with me in- -to this an- -gry flood
And swim to yon- -der point?" Up- -on the word
And bade him fol- -low So in- -deed he did
The tor- -rent roar'd and we did buf- -fet it
But ere we could ar- -rive the point pro- -posed
Cae- -sar cried "Help me Cas- -sius or I sink!
Is now be- -come a god and Cas- -sius is
A wretch- -ed crea- -ture and must bend his body
If Cae- -sar care- -less- -ly but nod on him
And when the fit was on him I did mark
How he did shake 'Tis true this god did shake
His cow- -ard lips did from their col- -or fly
And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
Did lose his lus- -ter I did hear him groan
Mark him and write his speech- -es in their books
A man of such a fee- -ble tem- -per should
So get the start of the ma- -jes- -tic world
I do be- -lieve that these ap- -plaus- -es are
Why man he doth be- -stride the nar- -row world
Men at some time are mas- -ters of their fates
The fault dear Bru- -tus is not in our stars
But in our- -selves that we are un- -der- -lings
Why should that name be sound- -ed more than yours?
Sound them it doth be- -come the mouth as well
Weigh them it is as heavy con- -jure with 'em
Now in the names of all the gods at once
Up- -on what meat doth this our Cae- -sar feed
That he is grown so great? Age thou art shamed!
When went there by an age since the great flood
But it was famed with more than with one man?
When could they say till now that talk'd of Rome
That her wide walls en- -com- -pass'd but one man?
When there is in it but one on- -ly man
O you and I have heard our fa- -thers say
There was a Bru- -tus once that would have brook'd
What you would work me to I have some aim
How I have thought of this and of these times
I will con- -sid- -er what you have to say
I will with pa- -tience hear and find a time
Both meet to hear and an- -swer such high things
Till then my no- -ble friend chew up- -on this
Than to re- -pute him- -self a son of Rome
Un- -der these hard con- -di- -tions as this time
As they pass by pluck Cas- -ca by the sleeve
What hath pro- -ceed- -ed wor- -thy note to- -day
The an- -gry spot doth glow on Cae- -sar's brow
And all the rest look like a chid- -den train
Cas- -ca will tell us what the mat- -ter is
Yond Cas- -sius has a lean and hun- -gry look
He thinks too much such men are dan- -ger- -ous
Fear him not Cae- -sar he's not dan- -ger- -ous
Would he were fat- -ter! But I fear him not
So soon as that spare Cas- -sius He reads much
He is a great ob- -serv- -er and he looks
Quite through the deeds of men He loves no plays
Sel- -dom he smiles and smiles in such a sort
Such men as he be nev- -er at heart's ease
Come on my right hand for this ear is deaf
And tell me tru- -ly what thou think'st of him
Ay Cas- -ca tell us what hath chanced to- -day
I should not then ask Cas- -ca what had chanced
They shout- -ed thrice What was the last cry for?
But soft I pray you what did Cae- -sars wound?
'Tis very like He hath the fall- -ing sick- -ness
No Cae- -sar hath it not but you and I
What said he when he came un- -to him- -self?
What a blunt fel- -low is this grown to be!
He was quick met- -tle when he went to school
This rude- -ness is a sauce to his good wit
Which gives men stom- -ach to di- -gest his words
To- -mor- -row if you please to speak with me
I will come home to you or if you will
Come home to me and I will wait for you
I will do so Till then think of the world
Well Bru- -tus thou art no- -ble yet I see
That no- -ble minds keep ev- -er with their likes
For who so firm that can- -not be se- -duced?
He should not hu- -mor me I will this night
Writ- -ings all tend- -ing to the great opin- -ion
And af- -ter this let Cae- -sar seat him sure
Why are you breath- -less and why stare you so?
Are not you moved when all the sway of earth
Shakes like a thing un- -fir- -m? O Ci- -cero
I have seen tem- -pests when the scold- -ing winds
Have rived the knot- -ty oaks and I have seen
The am- -bi- -tious ocean swell and rage and foam
Did I go through a tem- -pest drop- -ping fire
A com- -mon slave you know him well by sight
Held up his left hand which did flame and burn
Like twen- -ty torch- -es join'd and yet his hand
Not sen- -si- -ble of fire re- -main'd un- -scorch'd
Be- -sides I ha' not since put up my sword
With- -out an- -noy- -ing me And there were drawn
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets
And yes- -ter- -day the bird of night did sit
Even at noon- -day up- -on the mar- -ket- -place
Do so con- -joint- -ly meet let not men say
"These are their rea- -sons they are nat- -u- -ral"
For I be- -lieve they are por- -ten- -tous things
Un- -to the cli- -mate that they point up- -on
Clean from the pur- -pose of the things them- -selves
Comes Cae- -sar to the Capi- -tol to- -mor- -row?
Your ear is good Cas- -sius what night is this!
Who ev- -er knew the heav- -ens men- -ace so?
Those that have known the earth so full of faults
Sub- -mit- -ting me un- -to the per- -ilous night
Have bared my bo- -som to the thun- -der- -stone
And when the cross blue light- -ning seem'd to open
The breast of heav- -en I did present my- -self
Such dread- -ful her- -alds to as- -ton- -ish us
You are dull Cas- -ca and those sparks of life
That should be in a Ro- -man you do want
Or else you use not You look pale and gaze
But if you would con- -sid- -er the true cause
Why all these fires why all these glid- -ing ghosts
Why birds and beasts from qual- -i- -ty and kind
Why old men fools and chil- -dren cal- -cu- -late
Why all these things change from their or- -di- -nance
To mon- -strous qual- -i- -ty why you shall find
Now could I Cas- -ca name to thee a man
In per- -son- -al ac- -tion yet prodi- -gious grown
Let it be who it is for Ro- -mans now
Have thews and limbs like to their an- -ces- -tors
Mean to es- -tab- -lish Cae- -sar as a king
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land
I know where I will wear this dag- -ger then
Cas- -sius from bondage will de- -liv- -er Cas- -sius
There- -in ye gods you make the weak most strong
Nor stony tow- -er nor walls of beat- -en brass
Nor air- -less dun- -geon nor strong links of iron
But life be- -ing weary of these world- -ly bars
Nev- -er lacks pow- -er to dis- -miss it- -self
If I know this know all the world be- -sides
I can shake off at plea- -sure Thun- -der still
So ev- -ery bond- -man in his own hand bears
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf
But that he sees the Ro- -mans are but sheep
He were no li- -on were not Ro- -mans hinds
Be- -gin it with weak straws What trash is Rome
What rub- -bish and what of- -fal when it serves
For the base mat- -ter to il- -lu- -mi- -nate
So vile a thing as Cae- -sar? But O grief
Where hast thou led me? I per- -haps speak this
Be- -fore a will- -ing bond- -man then I know
And dan- -gers are to me in- -dif- -fer- -ent
You speak to Cas- -ca and to such a man
Be fac- -tious for re- -dress of all these griefs
And I will set this foot of mine as far
Now know you Cas- -ca I have moved al- -ready
To un- -der- -go with me an en- -ter- -prise
And I do know by this they stay for me
In Pom- -pey's Porch For now this fear- -ful night
There is no stir or walk- -ing in the streets
And the com- -plex- -ion of the el- -e- -ment
In fa- -vor's like the work we have in hand
'Tis Cin- -na I do know him by his gait
He is a friend Cin- -na where haste you so?
To find out you Who's that? Metel- -lus Cim- -ber?
No it is Cas- -ca one in- -cor- -po- -rate
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights
And look you lay it in the prae- -tor's chair
Where Bru- -tus may but find it and throw this
In at his win- -dow set this up with wax
Up- -on old Bru- -tus' stat- -ue All this done
Is De- -cius Bru- -tus and Tre- -bo- -nius there?
To seek you at your house Well I will hie
Come Cas- -ca you and I will yet ere day
See Bru- -tus at his house Three parts of him
O he sits high in all the peo- -ple's hearts
And that which would ap- -pear of- -fense in us
Him and his worth and our great need of him
You have right well con- -ceit- -ed Let us go
For it is af- -ter mid- -night and ere day
Give guess how near to day Lu- -cius I say!
When Lu- -cius when? Awake I say! What Lu- -cius!
Get me a ta- -per in my study Lu- -cius
When it is light- -ed come and call me here
It must be by his death and for my part
But for the gen- -er- -al He would be crown'd
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder
And then I grant we put a sting in him
That at his will he may do dan- -ger with
The abuse of great- -ness is when it dis- -joins
I have not known when his af- -fec- -tions sway'd
But when he once at- -tains the up- -most round
He then un- -to the lad- -der turns his back
Looks in the clouds scorn- -ing the base de- -grees
By which he did as- -cend So Cae- -sar may
Will bear no col- -or for the thing he is
Would run to these and these ex- -trem- -i- -ties
The ta- -per bur- -neth in your clos- -et sir
Search- -ing the win- -dow for a flint I found
This pa- -per thus seal'd up and I am sure
It did not lie there when I went to bed
Is not to- -mor- -row boy the ides of March?
Look in the cal- -en- -dar and bring me word
Give so much light that I may read by them
"Bru- -tus thou sleep- -'st awake and see thy- -self!
Shall Rome stand un- -der one man's awe? What Rome?
My an- -ces- -tors did from the streets of Rome
"S- -peak strike re- -dress!" Am I en- -treat- -ed
If the re- -dress will fol- -low thou re- -ceivest
Since Cas- -sius first did whet me against Cae- -sar
Be- -tween the act- -ing of a dread- -ful thing
The ge- -nius and the mor- -tal in- -stru- -ments
Are then in coun- -cil and the state of man
Like to a lit- -tle king- -dom suf- -fers then
Sir 'tis your broth- -er Cas- -sius at the door
No sir their hats are pluck- -'d about their ears
That by no means I may dis- -cov- -er them
They are the fac- -tion O Con- -spir- -a- -cy
Hide it in smiles and af- -fa- -bil- -i- -ty
For if thou path thy na- -tive sem- -blance on
I think we are too bold up- -on your rest
Good mor- -row Bru- -tus do we trou- -ble you?
Yes ev- -ery man of them and no man here
But hon- -ors you and ev- -ery one doth wish
Which ev- -ery no- -ble Ro- -man bears of you
What watch- -ful cares do in- -ter- -pose them- -selves
Here lies the east Doth not the day break here?
O par- -don sir it doth and yon- -grey lines
That fret the clouds are mes- -sen- -gers of day
You shall con- -fess that you are both de- -ceived
Here as I point my sword the sun aris- -es
Which is a great way grow- -ing on the south
Weigh- -ing the youth- -ful sea- -son of the year
No not an oath If not the face of men
The suf- -fer- -ance of our souls the time's abuse
If these be mo- -tives weak break off be- -times
So let high- -- -sight- -ed tyran- -ny range on
Till each man drop by lot- -tery But if these
To prick us to re- -dress? What oth- -er bond
Than se- -cret Ro- -mans that have spoke the word
And will not pal- -ter? And what oth- -er oath
That this shall be or we will fall for it?
That wel- -come wrongs un- -to bad caus- -es swear
Such crea- -tures as men doubt but do not stain
Did need an oath when ev- -ery drop of blood
If he do break the small- -est par- -ti- -cle
O let us have him for his sil- -ver hairs
And buy men's voic- -es to com- -mend our deeds
It shall be said his judge- -ment ruled our hands
Our youths and wild- -ness shall no whit ap- -pear
O name him not let us not break with him
De- -cius well urged I think it is not meet
Should out- -live Cae- -sar We shall find of him
A shrewd con- -triv- -er and you know his means
If he im- -prove them may well stretch so far
As to an- -noy us all which to pre- -vent
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs
Like wrath in death and en- -vy af- -ter- -wards
Cae- -sar must bleed for it! And gen- -tle friends
Let's kill him bold- -ly but not wrath- -ful- -ly
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods
Not hew him as a car- -cass fit for hounds
And let our hearts as sub- -tle mas- -ters do
Stir up their ser- -vants to an act of rage
And af- -ter seem to chide 'em This shall make
Which so ap- -pear- -ing to the com- -mon eyes
For he can do no more than Cae- -sar's arm
If he love Cae- -sar all that he can do
To sports to wild- -ness and much com- -pa- -ny
There is no fear in him- -let him not die
For he will live and laugh at this here- -after
Whether Cae- -sar will come forth to- -day or no
For he is su- -per- -sti- -tious grown of late
Of fan- -ta- -sy of dreams and cer- -e- -monies
The un- -ac- -cus- -tom'd ter- -ror of this night
And the per- -sua- -sion of his au- -gur- -ers
Nev- -er fear that If he be so re- -solved
I can o'er- -sway him for he loves to hear
Li- -ons with toils and men with flat- -ter- -ers
But when I tell him he hates flat- -ter- -ers
He says he does be- -ing then most flat- -tered
For I can give his hu- -mor the true bent
By the eighth hour Is that the ut- -ter most?
Be that the ut- -ter- -most and fail not then
I won- -der none of you have thought of him
Send him but hith- -er and I'll fash- -ion him
Good gen- -tle- -men look fresh and mer- -ri- -ly
Let not our looks put on our pur- -pos- -es
But bear it as our Ro- -man ac- -tors do
And so good mor- -row to you ev- -ery one
Boy! Lu- -cius! Fast asleep? It is no mat- -ter
En- -joy the hon- -ey- -heavy dew of slum- -ber
Por- -tia what mean you? Where- -fore rise you now?
It is not for your health thus to com- -mit
Stole from my bed and yestern- -ight at sup- -per
And when I ask'd you what the mat- -ter was
You stared up- -on me with un- -gen- -tle looks
I urged you fur- -ther then you scratch'd your head
Yet I in- -sist- -ed yet you an- -swer'd not
But with an an- -gry wait- -er of your hand
Gave sign for me to leave you So I did
Which some- -time hath his hour with ev- -ery man
It will not let you eat nor talk nor sleep
And could it work so much up- -on your shape
I should not know you Bru- -tus Dear my lord
Make me ac- -quaint- -ed with your cause of grief
I am not well in health and that is all
Bru- -tus is wise and were he not in health
He would em- -brace the means to come by it
Why so I do Good Por- -tia go to bed
Is Bru- -tus sick and is it phys- -i- -cal
To walk un- -braced and suck up the hu- -mors
Of the dank morn- -ing? What is Bru- -tus sick
And will he steal out of his whole- -some bed
To dare the vile con- -ta- -gion of the night
You have some sick of- -fense with- -in your mind
I ought to know of and up- -on my knees
By all your vows of love and that great vow
Which did in- -cor- -po- -rate and make us one
That you un- -fold to me your- -self your half
Have had re- -sort to you for here have been
Some six or sev- -en who did hide their faces
That ap- -per- -tain to you? Am I your- -self
To keep with you at meals com- -fort your bed
Of your good plea- -sure? If it be no more
Por- -tia is Bru- -tus' har- -lot not his wife
As dear to me as are the rud- -dy drops
I grant I am a wom- -an but with- -al
A wom- -an that Lord Bru- -tus took to wife
I grant I am a wom- -an but with- -al
A wom- -an well re- -put- -ed Cato's daugh- -ter
Be- -ing so fa- -ther'd and so hus- -band- -ed?
I have made strong proof of my con- -stan- -cy
And by and by thy bo- -som shall par- -take
Here is a sick man that would speak with you
Vouch- -safe good mor- -row from a fee- -ble tongue
O what a time have you chose out brave Caius
To wear a ker- -chief! Would you were not sick!
I am not sick if Bru- -tus have in hand
Any ex- -ploit wor- -thy the name of hon- -or
Had you a health- -ful ear to hear of it
By all the gods that Ro- -mans bow be- -fore
I here dis- -card my sick- -ness! Soul of Rome!
Brave son de- -rived from hon- -or- -able loin- -s!
Thou like an ex- -or- -cist hast con- -jured up
My mor- -ti- -fied spir- -it Now bid me run
And I will strive with things im- -pos- -si- -ble
Yea get the bet- -ter of them What's to do?
A piece of work that will make sick men whole
But are not some whole that we must make sick?
That must we al- -so What it is my Caius
To do I know not what but it suf- -ficeth
Nor heav- -en nor earth have been at peace tonight
"Help ho! They mur- -ther Cae- -sar!" Who's with- -in?
What mean you Cae- -sar? Think you to walk forth?
You shall not stir out of your house to- -day
Cae- -sar shall forth the things that threat- -en'd me
Ne'er look'd but on my back when they shall see
Yet now they fright me There is one with- -in
Be- -sides the things that we have heard and seen
Re- -counts most hor- -rid sights seen by the watch
And graves have yawn'd and yield- -ed up their dead
The noise of bat- -tle hur- -tled in the air
Hors- -es did neigh and dy- -ing men did groan
O Cae- -sar! These things are be- -yond all use
Whose end is pur- -posed by the mighty god- -s?
Of all the won- -ders that I yet have heard
It seems to me most strange that men should fear
They would not have you to stir forth to- -day
They could not find a heart with- -in the beast
Cae- -sar should be a beast with- -out a heart
If he should stay at home to- -day for fear
No Cae- -sar shall not Dan- -ger knows full well
That Cae- -sar is more dan- -ger- -ous than he
We are two li- -ons lit- -ter'd in one day
And I the el- -der and more ter- -ri- -ble
Your wis- -dom is con- -sumed in con- -fi- -dence
Do not go forth to- -day Call it my fear
That keeps you in the house and not your own
And he shall say you are not well to- -day
Let me up- -on my knee pre- -vail in this
And for thy hu- -mor I will stay at home
Here's De- -cius Bru- -tus he shall tell them so
I come to fetch you to the Sen- -ate House
To bear my greet- -ing to the sen- -a- -tors
And tell them that I will not come to- -day
Can- -not is false and that I dare not falser
Have I in con- -quest stretch'd mine arm so far
De- -cius go tell them Cae- -sar will not come
The cause is in my will I will not come
That is enough to sat- -is- -fy the Sen- -ate
Be- -cause I love you I will let you know
Which like a foun- -tain with an hun- -dred spouts
Came smil- -ing and did bathe their hands in it
It was a vi- -sion fair and for- -tu- -nate
Sig- -ni- -fies that from you great Rome shall suck
Re- -viv- -ing blood and that great men shall press
This by Calpur- -ni- -a's dream is sig- -ni- -fied
And this way have you well ex- -pound- -ed it
I have when you have heard what I can say
To give this day a crown to mighty Cae- -sar
If you shall send them word you will not come
Their minds may change Be- -sides it were a mock
Apt to be ren- -der'd for some- -one to say
"Break up the Sen- -ate till an- -oth- -er time
Par- -don me Cae- -sar for my dear dear love
To your pro- -ceed- -ing bids me tell you this
And look where Pub- -lius is come to fetch me
Cae- -sar was ne'er so much your en- -e- -my
Is not- -with- -stand- -ing up Good mor- -row Antony
I am to blame to be thus wait- -ed for
Now Cin- -na now Metel- -lus what Tre- -bo- -nius
Re- -mem- -ber that you call on me to- -day
Be near me that I may re- -mem- -ber you
Good friends go in and taste some wine with me
And as a suit- -or will I give him this
If thou read this O Cae- -sar thou mayest live
Stay not to an- -swer me but get thee gone
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there
O con- -stan- -cy be strong up- -on my side!
Set a huge moun- -tain 'tween my heart and tongue!
I have a man's mind but a wom- -an's might
And so re- -turn to you and noth- -ing else?
Yes bring me word boy if thy lord look well
For he went sick- -ly forth and take good note
What Cae- -sar doth what suit- -ors press to him
Thou hast some suit to Cae- -sar hast thou not?
I shall be- -seech him to be- -friend him- -self
The throng that fol- -lows Cae- -sar at the heels
Will crowd a fee- -ble man al- -most to death
I'll get me to a place more void and there
I must go in Ay me how weak a thing
The heav- -ens speed thee in thine en- -ter- -prise!
Sure the boy heard me Bru- -tus hath a suit
That Cae- -sar will not grant O I grow faint
Run Lu- -cius and com- -mend me to my lord
And bring me word what he doth say to thee
Tre- -bo- -nius doth de- -sire you to o'er read
O Cae- -sar read mine first for mine's a suit
What touch- -es us our- -self shall be last served
De- -lay not Cae- -sar read it in- -stant- -ly
What urge you your pe- -ti- -tions in the street?
I wish your en- -ter- -prise to- -day may thrive
He wish'd to- -day our en- -ter- -prise might thrive
Bru- -tus what shall be done? If this be known
Cas- -sius or Cae- -sar nev- -er shall turn back
Popil- -ius Lena speaks not of our pur- -pos- -es
For look he smiles and Cae- -sar doth not change
And present- -ly pre- -fer his suit to Cae- -sar
He is ad- -dress'd press near and sec- -ond him
Cas- -ca you are the first that rears your hand
That Cae- -sar and his Sen- -ate must re- -dress?
Most high most mighty and most puis- -sant Cae- -sar
These couch- -ings and these low- -ly cour- -te- -sies
And turn pre- -or- -di- -nance and first de- -cree
In- -to the law of chil- -dren Be not fond
That will be thaw'd from the true qual- -i- -ty
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way
Know Cae- -sar doth not wrong nor with- -out cause
Is there no voice more wor- -thy than my own
To sound more sweet- -ly in great Cae- -sar's ear
De- -sir- -ing thee that Pub- -lius Cim- -ber may
As low as to thy foot doth Cas- -sius fall
I could be well moved if I were as you
If I could pray to move prayers would move me
But I am con- -stant as the north- -ern star
There is no fel- -low in the fir- -ma- -ment
The skies are paint- -ed with un- -num- -ber'd sparks
They are all fire and ev- -ery one doth shine
But there's but one in all doth hold his place
So in the world 'tis fur- -nish'd well with men
Yet in the num- -ber I do know but one
Un- -shaked of mo- -tion and that I am he
Let me a lit- -tle show it even in this
And con- -stant do re- -main to keep him so
Some to the com- -mon pul- -pits and cry out
Fly not stand still am- -bi- -tion's debt is paid
And leave us Pub- -lius lest that the peo- -ple
Men wives and chil- -dren stare cry out and run
That we shall die we know 'tis but the time
And draw- -ing days out that men stand up- -on
Why he that cuts off twen- -ty years of life
Grant that and then is death a ben- -e- -fit
His time of fear- -ing death Stoop Ro- -mans stoop
And let us bathe our hands in Cae- -sar's blood
Up to the el- -bows and be- -smear our swords
Then walk we forth even to the mar- -ket- -place
Let's all cry "Peace free- -dom and lib- -er- -ty!"
In states un- -born and ac- -cents yet un- -known!
The men that gave their coun- -try lib- -er- -ty
Bru- -tus shall lead and we will grace his heels
With the most bold- -est and best hearts of Rome
Thus Bru- -tus did my mas- -ter bid me kneel
And be- -ing pros- -trate thus he bade me say
Bru- -tus is no- -ble wise valiant and hon- -est
Cae- -sar was mighty bold roy- -al and lov- -ing
Say I love Bru- -tus and I hon- -or him
May safe- -ly come to him and be re- -solved
How Cae- -sar hath de- -served to lie in death
Thor- -ough the haz- -ards of this un- -trod state
With all true faith So says my mas- -ter Antony
Thy mas- -ter is a wise and valiant Ro- -man
Tell him so please him come un- -to this place
I know that we shall have him well to friend
I wish we may but yet have I a mind
That fears him much and my mis- -giv- -ing still
Are all thy con- -quests glo- -ries tri- -umphs spoils
Shrunk to this lit- -tle mea- -sure? Fare thee well
I know not gen- -tle- -men what you in- -tend
Who else must be let blood who else is rank
If I my- -self there is no hour so fit
As Cae- -sar's death's hour nor no in- -stru- -ment
Of half that worth as those your swords made rich
With the most no- -ble blood of all this world
I do be- -seech ye if you bear me hard
Now whilst your pur- -pled hands do reek and smoke
Ful- -fill your plea- -sure Live a thou- -sand years
I shall not find my- -self so apt to die
No place will please me so no means of death
As here by Cae- -sar and by you cut off
The choice and mas- -ter spir- -its of this age
Though now we must ap- -pear bloody and cru- -el
You see we do yet see you but our hands
And this the bleed- -ing busi- -ness they have done
And pity to the gen- -er- -al wrong of Rome
Hath done this deed on Cae- -sar For your part
To you our swords have lead- -en points Mark Antony
Our arms in strength of mal- -ice and our hearts
With all kind love good thoughts and rev- -er- -ence
In the dis- -pos- -ing of new dig- -ni- -ties
On- -ly be pa- -tient till we have ap- -peased
The mul- -ti- -tude be- -side them- -selves with fear
And then we will de- -liv- -er you the cause
First Mar- -cus Bru- -tus will I shake with you
Now De- -cius Bru- -tus yours now yours Metel- -lus
My cred- -it now stands on such slip- -pery ground
Ei- -ther a cow- -ard or a flat- -ter- -er
That I did love thee Cae- -sar O 'tis true!
If then thy spir- -it look up- -on us now
Shall it not grieve thee dear- -er than thy death
Most no- -ble! In the pres- -ence of thy corse?
Weep- -ing as fast as they stream forth thy blood
It would be- -come me bet- -ter than to close
In terms of friend- -ship with thine en- -e- -mies
Par- -don me Julius! Here wast thou bay'd brave hart
Sign'd in thy spoil and crim- -son'd in thy Lethe
O world thou wast the for- -est to this hart
And this in- -deed O world the heart of thee
The en- -e- -mies of Cae- -sar shall say this
I blame you not for prais- -ing Cae- -sar so
But what com- -pact mean you to have with us?
Or shall we on and not de- -pend on you?
There- -fore I took your hands but was in- -deed
Friends am I with you all and love you all
Why and where- -in Cae- -sar was dan- -ger- -ous
Or else were this a sav- -age spec- -ta- -cle
Our rea- -sons are so full of good re- -gard
And in the pul- -pit as be- -comes a friend
Speak in the or- -der of his fu- -ner- -al
Know you how much the peo- -ple may be moved
I will my- -self in- -to the pul- -pit first
And show the rea- -son of our Cae- -sar's death
And that we are con- -tent- -ed Cae- -sar shall
Have all true rites and law- -ful cer- -e- -monies
It shall ad- -van- -tage more than do us wrong
I know not what may fall I like it not
O par- -don me thou bleed- -ing piece of earth
Thou art the ru- -ins of the no- -blest man
Woe to the hand that shed this cost- -ly blood!
(Which like dumb mouths do ope their ru- -by lips
A curse shall light up- -on the limbs of men
Blood and de- -struc- -tion shall be so in use
That moth- -ers shall but smile when they be- -hold
Their in- -fants quar- -ter'd with the hands of war
And Cae- -sar's spir- -it rang- -ing for re- -venge
Shall in these con- -fines with a monar- -ch's voice
Cry "Hav- -oc!" and let slip the dogs of war
Cae- -sar did write for him to come to Rome
And bid me say to you by word of mouth
Pas- -sion I see is catch- -ing for mine eyes
See- -ing those beads of sor- -row stand in thine
He lies tonight with- -in sev- -en leagues of Rome
Post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
In- -to the mar- -ket- -place There shall I try
Ac- -cord- -ing to the which thou shalt dis- -course
Lend me your hand Exe- -unt with Cae- -sar's body
Cas- -sius go you in- -to the oth- -er street
Those that will hear me speak let 'em stay here
Those that will fol- -low Cas- -sius go with him
When sev- -er- -al- -ly we hear them ren- -dered
En- -ter Antony and oth- -ers with Cae- -sar's body
Bring him with tri- -umph home un- -to his house
Give him a stat- -ue with his an- -ces- -tors
Do grace to Cae- -sar's corse and grace his speech
Tend- -ing to Cae- -sar's glo- -ries which Mark Antony
By our per- -mis- -sion is al- -low'd to make
I do en- -treat you not a man de- -part
Let him go up in- -to the pub- -lic chair
He finds him- -self be- -hold- -ing to us all
'Twere best he speak no harm of Bru- -tus here
Friends Ro- -mans coun- -try- -men lend me your ears!
I come to bury Cae- -sar not to praise him
If it were so it was a griev- -ous fault
And griev- -ous- -ly hath Cae- -sar an- -swer'd it
Here un- -der leave of Bru- -tus and the rest
Come I to speak in Cae- -sar's fu- -ner- -al
He was my friend faith- -ful and just to me
When that the poor have cried Cae- -sar hath wept
Am- -bi- -tion should be made of stern- -er stuff
You all did see that on the Lu- -per- -cal
I thrice pre- -sent- -ed him a king- -ly crown
Which he did thrice refuse Was this am- -bi- -tion?
I speak not to dis- -prove what Bru- -tus spoke
But here I am to speak what I do know
You all did love him once not with- -out cause
What cause with- -holds you then to mourn for him?
And men have lost their rea- -son Bear with me
And I must pause till it come back to me
I fear there will a worse come in his place
Mark'd ye his word- -s? He would not take the
If it be found so some will dear abide it
There's not a no- -bler man in Rome than Antony
But yes- -ter- -day the word of Cae- -sar might
And none so poor to do him rev- -er- -ence
I should do Bru- -tus wrong and Cas- -sius wrong
To wrong the dead to wrong my- -self and you
I found it in his clos- -et 'tis his will
Let but the com- -mons hear this tes- -ta- -ment
Which par- -don me I do not mean to read
And they would go and kiss dead Cae- -sar's wounds
And dip their nap- -kins in his sa- -cred blood
Yea beg a hair of him for mem- -o- -ry
And dy- -ing men- -tion it with- -in their wills
The will the will! We will hear Cae- -sar's will
You are not wood you are not stones but men
It will in- -flame you it will make you mad
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs
For if you should O what would come of it!
Will you be pa- -tien- -t? Will you stay awhile?
You will com- -pel me then to read the will?
Then make a ring about the corse of Cae- -sar
And let me show you him that made the will
Shall I de- -scend? And will you give me leave?
Nay press not so up- -on me stand far off
If you have tears pre- -pare to shed them now
The first time ev- -er Cae- -sar put it on
'T- -was on a sum- -mer's evening in his tent
Look in this place ran Cas- -sius' dag- -ger through
Through this the well- -- -beloved Bru- -tus stab- -b'd
Mark how the blood of Cae- -sar fol- -low'd it
As rush- -ing out of doors to be re- -solved
This was the most un- -kind- -est cut of all
For when the no- -ble Cae- -sar saw him stab
And in his man- -tle muf- -fling up his face
Which all the while ran blood great Cae- -sar fell
O what a fall was there my coun- -try- -men!
Then I and you and all of us fell down
O now you weep and I per- -ceive you feel
Kind souls what weep you when you but be- -hold
Our Cae- -sar's ves- -ture wound- -ed? Look you here
Good friends sweet friends let me not stir you up
They that have done this deed are hon- -or- -able
What pri- -vate griefs they have alas I know not
And will no doubt with rea- -sons an- -swer you
I am no or- -a- -tor as Bru- -tus is
But as you know me all a plain blunt man
That love my friend and that they know full well
That gave me pub- -lic leave to speak of him
For I have nei- -ther wit nor words nor worth
To stir men's blood I on- -ly speak right on
I tell you that which you your- -selves do know
In ev- -ery wound of Cae- -sar that should move
Yet hear me coun- -try- -men yet hear me speak
Why friends you go to do you know not what
Where- -in hath Cae- -sar thus de- -served your loves?
You have for- -got the will I told you of
Most true the will! Let's stay and hear the will
Here is the will and un- -der Cae- -sar's seal
To ev- -ery Ro- -man cit- -i- -zen he gives
Most no- -ble Cae- -sar! We'll re- -venge his death
And thith- -er will I straight to vis- -it him
Are rid like mad- -men through the gates of Rome
I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Cae- -sar
I have no will to wan- -der forth of doors
That's as much as to say they are fools that
Tear him to pieces he's a con- -spir- -a- -tor
I am not Cin- -na the con- -spir- -a- -tor
name out of his heart and turn him go- -ing
These many then shall die their names are prick- -'d
Up- -on con- -di- -tion Pub- -lius shall not live
This is a slight un- -mer- -i- -ta- -ble man
Meet to be sent on er- -rands Is it fit
And though we lay these hon- -ors on this man
To ease our- -selves of divers slan- -der- -ous loads
He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold
And hav- -ing brought our trea- -sure where we will
Then take we down his load and turn him off
Like to the emp- -ty ass to shake his ears
It is a crea- -ture that I teach to fight
To wind to stop to run di- -rect- -ly on
He must be taught and train'd and bid go forth
Which out of use and staled by oth- -er men
Be- -gin his fash- -ion Do not talk of him
But as a prop- -er- -ty And now Oc- -tavius
Are levy- -ing pow- -ers we must straight make head
And let us present- -ly go sit in coun- -cil
Let us do so for we are at the stake
And some that smile have in their hearts I fear
To do you salu- -ta- -tion from his mas- -ter
In his own change or by ill of- -fi- -cers
Hath giv- -en me some wor- -thy cause to wish
Things done un- -done but if he be at hand
But that my no- -ble mas- -ter will ap- -pear
He is not doubt- -ed A word Lu- -cil- -ius
How he re- -ceived you Let me be re- -solved
Nor with such free and friend- -ly con- -fer- -ence
When love be- -gins to sick- -en and de- -cay
There are no tricks in plain and sim- -ple faith
But hol- -low men like hors- -es hot at hand
They fall their crests and like de- -ceit- -ful jades
Most no- -ble broth- -er you have done me wrong
Speak your griefs soft- -ly I do know you well
Which should per- -ceive noth- -ing but love from us
Then in my tent Cas- -sius en- -large your griefs
That you have wrong'd me doth ap- -pear in this
Where- -in my let- -ters pray- -ing on his side
Be- -cause I knew the man were slight- -ed off
You wrong'd your- -self to write in such a case
In such a time as this it is not meet
You know that you are Bru- -tus that speaks this
Or by the gods this speech were else your last
And chas- -tise- -ment doth there- -fore hide his head
And not for jus- -tice? What shall one of us
That struck the fore- -most man of all this world
But for sup- -port- -ing rob- -bers shall we now
Con- -tam- -i- -nate our fin- -gers with base bribes
And sell the mighty space of our large hon- -ors
I had rather be a dog and bay the moon
I'll not en- -dure it You for- -get your- -self
To hedge me in I am a sol- -dier I
Urge me no more I shall for- -get my- -self
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
Shall I be fright- -ed when a mad- -man stares?
All this? Ay more Fret till your proud heart break
Go show your slaves how cho- -ler- -ic you are
And make your bond- -men trem- -ble Must I bouge?
Must I ob- -serve you? Must I stand and crouch
You shall di- -gest the ven- -om of your spleen
Though it do split you for from this day forth
Let it ap- -pear so make your vaunt- -ing true
And it shall please me well For mine own part
I shall be glad to learn of no- -ble men
Peace peace! You durst not so have tempt- -ed him
Do not pre- -sume too much up- -on my love
I may do that I shall be sor- -ry for
You have done that you should be sor- -ry for
There is no ter- -ror Cas- -sius in your threats
For I am ar- -m'd so strong in hon- -esty
Which I re- -spect not I did send to you
For I can raise no mon- -ey by vile means
And drop my blood for drach- -mas than to wring
From the hard hands of peas- -ants their vile trash
To lock such ras- -cal coun- -ters from his friends
A friend should bear his friend's in- -fir- -mi- -ties
I do not till you prac- -tise them on me
A friend- -ly eye could nev- -er see such faults
To cast in- -to my teeth O I could weep
Dear- -er than Plu- -to's mine rich- -er than gold
If that thou best a Ro- -man take it forth
I that de- -nied thee gold will give my heart
Strike as thou didst at Cae- -sar for I know
Be an- -gry when you will it shall have scope
Do you con- -fess so much? Give me your hand
He'll think your moth- -er chides and leave you so
There is some grudge be- -tween 'em 'tis not meet
Love and be friends as two such men should be
For I have seen more years I'm sure than ye
Ha ha! How vile- -ly doth this cyn- -ic rhyme!
I'll know his hu- -mor when he knows his time
And come your- -selves and bring Mes- -sala with you
Lu- -cius a bowl of wine! Ex- -it Lu- -cius
Of your phi- -los- -o- -phy you make no use
If you give place to ac- -ci- -den- -tal evils
Have made them- -selves so strong for with her death
That tid- -ings came with this she fell dis- -tract
Re- -en- -ter Lu- -cius with wine and ta- -per
Fill Lu- -cius till the wine o'er- -swell the cup
And call in ques- -tion our ne- -ces- -si- -ties
Come down up- -on us with a mighty pow- -er
That by pro- -scrip- -tion and bills of out- -lawry
Have put to death an hun- -dred sen- -a- -tors
By their pro- -scrip- -tions Ci- -cero be- -ing one
Had you your let- -ters from your wife my lord?
Nor noth- -ing in your let- -ters writ of her?
Why ask you? Hear you aught of her in yours?
Now as you are a Ro- -man tell me true
Then like a Ro- -man bear the truth I tell
With med- -i- -tat- -ing that she must die once
I have the pa- -tience to en- -dure it now
Even so great men great loss- -es should en- -dure
I have as much of this in art as you
But yet my na- -ture could not bear it so
'Tis bet- -ter that the en- -e- -my seek us
So shall he waste his means weary his sol- -diers
Are full of rest de- -fense and nim- -ble- -ness
Come on re- -fresh'd new- -added and en- -cour- -aged
From which ad- -van- -tage shall we cut him off
Un- -der your par- -don You must note be- -side
That we have tried the ut- -most of our friends
There is a tide in the af- -fairs of men
And we must take the cur- -rent when it serves
We'll along our- -selves and meet them at Philip- -pi
The deep of night is crept up- -on our talk
Which we will nig- -gard with a lit- -tle rest
Ear- -ly to- -mor- -row will we rise and hence
Good night Ti- -tinius no- -ble no- -ble Cas- -sius
This was an ill be- -gin- -ning of the night
Poor knave I blame thee not thou art o'er- -watch'd
Call Clau- -dio and some oth- -er of my men
I'll have them sleep on cush- -ions in my tent
I pray you sirs lie in my tent and sleep
It may be I shall raise you by and by
I would not have it so Lie down good sirs
Look Lu- -cius here's the book I sought for so
I put it in the pock- -et of my gown
And touch thy in- -stru- -ment a strain or two?
I should not urge thy du- -ty past thy might
I know young bloods look for a time of rest
I will not hold thee long If I do live
Layest thou thy lead- -en mace up- -on my boy
That plays thee mu- -sic? Gen- -tle knave good night
If thou dost nod thou break'st thy in- -stru- -ment
I'll take it from thee and good boy good night
I think it is the weak- -ness of mine eyes
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philip- -pi
Now I have tak- -en heart thou van- -ish- -est
Ill spir- -it I would hold more talk with thee
He thinks he still is at his in- -stru- -ment
Didst thou dream Lu- -cius that thou so criedst out?
My lord I do not know that I did cry
Why did you so cry out sirs in your sleep?
CLAU- -DIO It shall be done my lord Exe- -unt
You said the en- -e- -my would not come down
It proves not so Their bat- -tles are at hand
Tut I am in their bo- -soms and I know
Where- -fore they do it They could be con- -tent
With fear- -ful brav- -ery think- -ing by this face
To fas- -ten in our thoughts that they have courage
The en- -e- -my comes on in gal- -lant show
Up- -on the right hand I keep thou the left
I do not cross you but I will do so
Lu- -cil- -ius Ti- -tinius Mes- -sala and oth- -ers
No Cae- -sar we will an- -swer on their charge
Make forth the gen- -er- -als would have some words
Words be- -fore blows Is it so coun- -try- -men?
Not that we love words bet- -ter as you do
Good words are bet- -ter than bad strokes Oc- -tavius
In your bad strokes Bru- -tus you give good words
Wit- -ness the hole you made in Cae- -sar's heart
The pos- -ture of your blows are yet un- -known
But for your words they rob the Hy- -bla bees
You show'd your teeth like apes and fawn'd like hounds
And bow'd like bond- -men kiss- -ing Cae- -sar's feet
This tongue had not of- -fend- -ed so to- -day
The proof of it will turn to red- -der drops
Nev- -er till Cae- -sar's three and thir- -ty wounds
Be well avenged or till an- -oth- -er Cae- -sar
I was not born to die on Bru- -tus' sword
O if thou wert the no- -blest of thy strain
Young man thou couldst not die more hon- -or- -able
If you dare fight to- -day come to the field
Why now blow and swell bil- -low and swim bark!
Was Cas- -sius born Give me thy hand Mes- -sala
Up- -on one bat- -tle all our lib- -er- -ties
Com- -ing from Sardis on our for- -mer en- -sign
Two mighty ea- -gles fell and there they per- -ch'd
Fly o'er our heads and down- -ward look on us
As we were sick- -ly prey Their shad- -ows seem
For I am fresh of spir- -it and re- -solved
The gods to- -day stand friend- -ly that we may
Let's rea- -son with the worst that may be- -fall
If we do lose this bat- -tle then is this
The very last time we shall speak to- -geth- -er
Even by the rule of that phi- -los- -o- -phy
Which he did give him- -self I know not how
But I do find it cow- -ard- -ly and vile
For fear of what might fall so to pre- -vent
That ev- -er Bru- -tus will go bound to Rome
He bears too great a mind But this same day
Must end that work the ides of March be- -gun
For- -ev- -er and for- -ev- -er farewell Cas- -sius!
If not why then this part- -ing was well made
For- -ev- -er and for- -ev- -er farewell Bru- -tus!
If not 'tis true this part- -ing was well made
Why then lead on O that a man might know
The end of this day's busi- -ness ere it come!
Let them set on at once for I per- -ceive
My- -self have to mine own turn'd en- -e- -my
This en- -sign here of mine was turn- -ing back
Who hav- -ing some ad- -van- -tage on Oc- -tavius
Fly fur- -ther off my lord fly fur- -ther off
Fly there- -fore no- -ble Cas- -sius fly far off
Are those my tents where I per- -ceive the fire?
Mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him
Till he have brought thee up to yon- -der troops
My sight was ev- -er thick re- -gard Ti- -tinius
And where I did be- -gin there shall I end
With horse- -men that make to him on the spur
Now Ti- -tinius! Now some light O he lights too
O cow- -ard that I am to live so long
To see my best friend ta'en be- -fore my face!
And then I swore thee sav- -ing of thy life
That what- -so- -ev- -er I did bid thee do
Thou shouldst at- -tempt it Come now keep thine oath
Now be a free- -man and with this good sword
Stand not to an- -swer here take thou the hilts
And when my face is cov- -er'd as 'tis now
So I am free yet would not so have been
Is over- -thrown by no- -ble Bru- -tus' pow- -er
Is not that he that lies up- -on the ground?
He lies not like the liv- -ing O my heart!
But Cas- -sius is no more O set- -ting sun
As in thy red rays thou dost sink to night
So in his red blood Cas- -sius' day is set
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone
Clouds dews and dan- -gers come our deeds are done!
Mis- -trust of my suc- -cess hath done this deed
Mis- -trust of good suc- -cess hath done this deed
Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
Thou nev- -er comest un- -to a hap- -py birth
The no- -ble Bru- -tus thrust- -ing this re- -port
In- -to his ears I may say "thrust- -ing" it
Put on my brows this wreath of vic- -to- -ry
But hold thee take this gar- -land on thy brow
Thy Bru- -tus bid me give it thee and I
And see how I re- -gard- -ed Caius Cas- -sius
By your leave gods this is a Ro- -man's part
The last of all the Ro- -mans fare thee well!
It is im- -pos- -si- -ble that ev- -er Rome
Should breed thy fel- -low Friends I owe moe tears
To this dead man than you shall see me pay
I shall find time Cas- -sius I shall find time
Come there- -fore and to Tha- -sos send his body
His fu- -ner- -als shall not be in our camp
Lest it dis- -com- -fort us Lu- -cil- -ius come
'Tis three o'- -clock and Ro- -mans yet ere night
What bas- -tard doth not? Who will go with me?
And I am Bru- -tus Mar- -cus Bru- -tus I
Kill Bru- -tus and be hon- -or'd in his death
I'll tell the news Here comes the gen- -er- -al
Bru- -tus is ta'en Bru- -tus is ta'en my lord
I dare as- -sure thee that no en- -e- -my
Shall ev- -er take alive the no- -ble Bru- -tus
The gods de- -fend him from so great a shame!
He will be found like Bru- -tus like him- -self
A prize no less in worth Keep this man safe
Such men my friends than en- -e- -mies Go on
Come poor re- -mains of friends rest on this rock
He came not back He is or ta'en or slain
Sit thee down Cli- -tus Slay- -ing is the word
What I my lord? No not for all the world
What ill re- -quest did Bru- -tus make to thee?
To kill him Cli- -tus Look he med- -i- -tates
Now is that no- -ble ves- -sel full of grief
The ghost of Cae- -sar hath ap- -pear'd to me
Two sev- -er- -al times by night at Sardis once
It is more wor- -thy to leap in our- -selves
Than tar- -ry till they push us Good Volum- -nius
Hold thou my sword- -hilts whilst I run on it
That's not an of- -fice for a friend my lord
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
I found no man but he was true to me
I shall have glo- -ry by this los- -ing day
By this vile con- -quest shall at- -tain un- -to
So fare you well at once for Bru- -tus' tongue
Hath al- -most end- -ed his life's his- -to- -ry
Night hangs up- -on mine eyes my bones would rest
Thou art a fel- -low of a good re- -spect
Give me your hand first Fare you well my lord
Alarum Re- -treat En- -ter Oc- -tavius Antony Mes- -sala
The con- -querors can but make a fire of him
And no man else hath hon- -or by his death
That thou hast proved Lu- -cil- -ius' say- -ing true
Fel- -low wilt thou be- -stow thy time with me?
Ay if Mes- -sala will pre- -fer me to you
I held the sword and he did run on it
This was the no- -blest Ro- -man of them all
All the con- -spir- -a- -tors save on- -ly he
And com- -mon good to all made one of them
His life was gen- -tle and the el- -e- -ments
So mix'd in him that Na- -ture might stand up
And say to all the world "This was a man!"
Ac- -cord- -ing to his virtue let us use him
Most like a sol- -dier or- -dered hon- -or- -ably
