If mu- -sic be the food of love play on
Give me ex- -cess of it that sur- -feit- -ing
O it came o'er my ear like the sweet south
That breathes up- -on a bank of vi- -o- -lets
'Tis not so sweet now as it was be- -fore
That not- -with- -stand- -ing thy ca- -pac- -i- -ty
Why so I do the no- -blest that I have
That in- -stant was I turn'd in- -to a hart
And my de- -sires like fell and cru- -el hounds
Shall not be- -hold her face at am- -ple view
A broth- -er's dead love which she would keep fresh
O she that hath a heart of that fine frame
How will she love when the rich gold- -en shaft
That live in her when liv- -er brain and heart
Her sweet per- -fec- -tion- -s, ith one self king!
Away be- -fore me to sweet beds of flow- -ers
And what should I do in Il- -lyr- -i- -a?
Per- -chance he is not drown'd hat think you sailors?
It is per- -chance that you your- -self were sav'd
As- -sure your- -self af- -ter our ship did split
When you and those poor num- -ber sav'd with you
Most prov- -i- -dent in per- -il bind him- -self
Courage and hope both teach- -ing him the prac- -tice
To a strong mast that liv'd up- -on the sea
Where like Ar- -i- -on on the dol- -phin's back
I saw him hold ac- -quain- -tance with the waves
Mine own es- -cape un- -fold- -eth to my hope
Where- -to thy speech serves for au- -thor- -i- -ty
Orsi- -no! I have heard my fa- -ther name him
Ago I went from hence and then 't- -was fresh
In mur- -mur, s you know what great ones do
The less will prat- -tle of, hat he did seek
That died some twelve- -month since then leav- -ing her
Who short- -ly al- -so died for whose dear love
They say she hath ab- -jured the com- -pa- -ny
And might not be de- -liv- -ered to the world
Be- -cause she will ad- -mit no kind of suit
And though that na- -ture with a beau- -teous wall
Doth oft close in pol- -lu- -tion yet of thee
I will be- -lieve thou hast a mind that suits
With this thy fair and out- -ward char- -ac- -ter
I pray thee and I'll pay thee boun- -teous- -ly
Con- -ceal me what I am and be my aid
For such dis- -guise as hap- -ly shall be- -come
The form of my in- -tent I'll serve this duke
Thou shalt present me as an eu- -nuch to him
It may be worth thy pains for I can sing
And speak to him in many sorts of mu- -sic
That will al- -low me very worth his ser- -vice
What else may hap to time I will com- -mit
Be you his eu- -nuch and your mute I'll be
When my tongue blabs then let mine eyes not see
Why let her ex- -cept be- -fore ex- -cept- -ed
Sir To- -by Belch! how now Sir To- -by Belch!
Mar- -ry but you shall have and here's my hand
She'll none o' the Count she'll not match above her
Where- -fore are these things hid? where- -fore have these
Thou know'st no less but all I have un- -clasp'd
To thee the book even of my se- -cret soul
Be not de- -nied ac- -cess stand at her doors
If she be so aban- -don'd to her sor- -row
Say I do speak with her my lord What then?
O then un- -fold the pas- -sion of my love
Sur- -prise her with dis- -course of my dear faith
It shall be- -come thee well to act my woes
She will at- -tend it bet- -ter in thy youth
Than in a nun- -cio of more grave as- -pect
For they shall yet be- -lie thy hap- -py years
Is as the maid- -en's or- -gan shrill and sound
And all is sem- -bla- -tive a wom- -an's part
I know thy con- -stel- -la- -tion is right apt
All if you will for I my- -self am best
I must cat- -e- -chize you for it madon- -na
Who of my peo- -ple hold him in de- -lay?
not at home what you will to dis- -miss it
one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater
la- -dy? he's for- -ti- -fied against any de- -nial
Give me my veil come throw it o'er my face
'Tis beau- -ty tru- -ly blent whose red and white
Na- -ture's own sweet and cun- -ning hand laid on
I see you what you are you are too proud
But if you were the dev- -il you are fair
My lord and mas- -ter loves you O such love
With groans that thun- -der love with sighs of fire
Of great es- -tate of fresh and stain- -less youth
In voic- -es well di- -vulged free learn'd and valiant
If I did love you in my mas- -ter's flame
Make me a wil- -low cab- -in at your gate
And call up- -on my soul with- -in the house
And sing them loud even in the dead of night
And make the bab- -bling gos- -sip of the air
Be- -tween the el- -e- -ments of air and earth
I can- -not love him let him send no more
To tell me how he takes it Fare you well
I thank you for your pains spend this for me
I am no fee'd post la- -dy keep your purse
My mas- -ter not my- -self lacks rec- -om- -pense
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love
And let your fer- -vour like my mas- -ter's be
Placed in con- -temp- -t! Farewell fair cru- -el- -ty
Un- -less the mas- -ter were the man. ow now?
With an in- -vis- -i- -ble and sub- -tle stealth
To creep in at mine eyes Well let it be
Run af- -ter that same peev- -ish mes- -sen- -ger
Would I or not tell him I'll none of it
De- -sire him not to flat- -ter with his lord
I'll give him rea- -sons for't Hie thee Malvo- -lio
I do I know not what and fear to find
Fate show thy force Our- -selves we do not owe
What is de- -creed must be and be this so!
Let me know of you whith- -er you are bound
Par- -don me sir your bad en- -ter- -tain- -ment
That dan- -ger shall seem sport and I will go
She took the ring of me I'll none of it
She made good view of me in- -deed so much
For she did speak in starts dis- -tract- -ed- -ly
In- -vites me in this churl- -ish mes- -sen- -ger
None of my lord's ring! why he sent her none
I am the man if it be so, s 'tis
Poor la- -dy she were bet- -ter love a dream
Where- -in the preg- -nant en- -e- -my does much
How easy is it for the prop- -er- -- -false
For such as we are made of such we be
And I poor mon- -ster fond as much on him
And she mis- -tak- -en seems to dote on me
What will be- -come of this? As I am man
O time thou must un- -tan- -gle this not I
A mel- -liflu- -ous voice as I am true knight
By'r la- -dy sir and some dogs will catch well
'His eyes do show his days are al- -most done.'
Do't knight I'll write thee a chal- -lenge or I'll
can hard- -ly make dis- -tinc- -tion of our hands
this night to bed and dream on the event Farewell
Give me some mu- -sic: ow good mor- -row friends
That old and an- -tique song we heard last night
More than light airs and rec- -ol- -lect- -ed terms
Of these most brisk and gid- -dy- -- -paced times
Come hith- -er boy If ev- -er thou shalt love
In the sweet pangs of it re- -mem- -ber me
Un- -staid and skit- -tish in all mo- -tions else
My life up- -on't young though thou art thine eye
She is not worth thee then What years i' faith?
So sways she lev- -el in her hus- -band's heart
For boy how- -ev- -er we do praise our- -selves
Our fan- -cies are more gid- -dy and un- -firm
Or thy af- -fec- -tion can- -not hold the bent
Be- -ing once dis- -play'd doth fall that very hour
To die even when they to per- -fec- -tion grow!
O fel- -low come the song we had last night
The spin- -sters and the knit- -ters in the sun
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones
Do use to chant it it is sil- -ly sooth
And dal- -lies with the in- -no- -cence of love
No pains sir I take plea- -sure in singing sir
Tell her my love more no- -ble than the world
But 'tis that mir- -a- -cle and queen of gems
That Na- -ture pranks her in at- -tracts my soul
Say that some la- -dy as per- -haps there is
Hath for your love as great a pang of heart
As you have for Olivia you can- -not love her
As love doth give my heart no wom- -an's heart
No mo- -tion of the liv- -er but the palate
That suf- -fer sur- -feit cloy- -ment and re- -volt
But mine is all as hun- -gry as the sea
And can di- -gest as much make no com- -pare
Be- -tween that love a wom- -an can bear me
Too well what love wom- -en to men may owe
In faith they are as true of heart as we
My fa- -ther had a daugh- -ter loved a man
A blank my lord She nev- -er told her love
She sat like pa- -tience on a mon- -u- -ment
Smil- -ing at grief Was not this love in- -deed?
We men may say more swear more but in- -deed
Our shows are more than will for still we prove
Much in our vows but lit- -tle in our love
But died thy sis- -ter of her love my boy?
To her in haste give her this jew- -el say
My love can give no place bide no de- -nay
with my la- -dy about a bear- -bait- -ing here
him black and blue: hall we not Sir An- -drew?
An we do not it is pity of our lives
niece give me this pre- -rog- -a- -tive of speech'
And with what wing the stan- -nyel checks at it!
M, alvo- -lio M, hy that be- -gins my name
I could mar- -ry this wench for this de- -vice
Here comes my no- -ble gul- -l- -- -catch- -er
im- -age of it leaves him he must run mad
Nay but say true does it work up- -on him?
con- -tempt if you will see it fol- -low me
I would it would make you in- -vis- -i- -ble
And to do that well craves a kind of wit
He must ob- -serve their mood on whom he jests
The qual- -i- -ty of per- -sons and the time
For fol- -ly that he wise- -ly shows is fit
My du- -ty madam and most hum- -ble ser- -vice
Ce- -sario is your ser- -van- -t's name fair princess
You are ser- -vant to the Count Orsi- -no youth
And he is yours and his must needs be yours
For him I think not on him for his thoughts
Would they were blanks rather than fil- -l'd with me!
But would you un- -der- -take an- -oth- -er suit
I had rather hear you to so- -lic- -it that
Af- -ter the last en- -chant- -ment you did here
A ring in chase of you so did I abuse
My- -self my ser- -vant and I fear me you
Un- -der your hard con- -struc- -tion must I sit
Which you knew none of yours What might you think?
Have you not set mine hon- -our at the stake
Enough is shown a cy- -press not a bo- -som
No not a grise for 'tis a vul- -gar proof
O world how apt the poor are to be proud!
The clock up- -braids me with the waste of time
Be not afraid good youth I will not have you
Your wife is like to reap a prop- -er man
That you do think you are not what you are
If I think so I think the same of you
Then think you right I am not what I am
I would you were as I would have you be!
I wish it might for now I am your fool
O what a deal of scorn looks beau- -ti- -ful
A mur- -d'rous guilt shows not it- -self more soon
Than love that would seem hid love's night is noon
By maid- -hood hon- -our truth and ev- -ery- -thing
I love thee so that mau- -gre all thy pride
Nor wit nor rea- -son can my pas- -sion hide
Do not ex- -tort thy rea- -sons from this clause
For that I woo thou there- -fore hast no cause
But rather rea- -son thus with rea- -son fet- -ter
By in- -no- -cence I swear and by my youth
I have one heart one bo- -som and one truth
And that no wom- -an has nor nev- -er none
Will I my mas- -ter's tears to you de- -plore
That heart which now ab- -hors to like his love
Thy rea- -son dear ven- -om give thy rea- -son
You must needs yield your rea- -son Sir An- -drew
I would not by my will have trou- -bled you
But since you make your plea- -sure of your pains
I could not stay be- -hind you my de- -sire
And not all love to see you, hough so much
As might have drawn one to a longer voy- -age
But jeal- -ousy what might be- -fall your trav- -el
Un- -guid- -ed and un- -friend- -ed of- -ten prove
I can no oth- -er an- -swer make but thanks
And thanks and ev- -er thanks Of- -ten good turns
Are shuf- -fled off with such un- -cur- -rent pay
But were my worth as is my con- -science firm
You should find bet- -ter deal- -ing What's to do?
I pray you let us sat- -is- -fy our eyes
With the memo- -ri- -als and the things of fame
I do not with- -out dan- -ger walk these streets
I did some ser- -vice of such note in- -deed
Might well have giv- -en us bloody ar- -gu- -ment
What we took from them which for traf- -fic's sake
It doth not fit me Hold sir here's my purse
Hap- -ly your eye shall light up- -on some toy
You have de- -sire to pur- -chase and your store
I have sent af- -ter him He says he'll come
How shall I feast him? what be- -stow on him?
best to have some guard about you if he come
For sure the man is taint- -ed in his wits
Go call him hith- -er. 'm as mad as he
I think we do know the sweet Ro- -man hand
To bed? ay sweet- -heart and I'll come to thee
At your re- -quest? Yes nightin- -gales an- -swer daws
Car- -ry his wa- -ter to the wise wom- -an
Why how now my baw- -cock? how dost thou chuck
Very brief and to ex- -ceed- -ing good sense- -less
And laid mine hon- -our too un- -chary on it
There's some- -thing in me that re- -proves my fault
But such a head- -strong po- -tent fault it is
Refuse it not it hath no tongue to vex you
What shall you ask of me that I'll de- -ny
That hon- -our saved may up- -on ask- -ing give?
How with mine hon- -our may I give him that
Well come again to- -- -mor- -row Fare thee well
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell
cer- -tain or for- -swear to wear iron about you
Pray you sir do you know of this mat- -ter?
I'll ride your horse as well as I ride you
Put up your sword: f this young gen- -tle- -man
Have done of- -fence I take the fault on me
One sir that for his love dares yet do more
Than you have heard him brag to you he will
An- -to- -nio I ar- -rest thee at the suit
What will you do? Now my ne- -ces- -si- -ty
Much more for what I can- -not do for you
For the fair kind- -ness you have showed me here
I'll make di- -vi- -sion of my present with you
Lest that it make me so un- -sound a man
As to up- -braid you with those kind- -ness- -es
Nor know I you by voice or any fea- -ture
I hate in- -grat- -i- -tude more in a man
Than ly- -ing vain- -ness bab- -bling drunk- -en- -ness
Or any taint of vice whose strong cor- -rup- -tion
I snatched one half out of the jaws of death
Re- -lieved him with such sanc- -ti- -ty of love
And to his im- -age which methought did prom- -ise
Thou hast Se- -bas- -tian done good fea- -ture shame
In na- -ture there's no blem- -ish but the mind
The man grows mad away with him Come come sir
Me- -thinks his words do from such pas- -sion fly
That he be- -lieves him- -self so do not I
That I dear broth- -er be now ta'en for you!
o'er a cou- -plet or two of most sage saws
He named Se- -bas- -tian I my broth- -er know
Yet liv- -ing in my glass even such and so
For him I im- -i- -tate O if it prove
Tem- -pests are kind and salt waves fresh in love!
'S- -lid I'll af- -ter him again and beat him
There's mon- -ey for thee if you tar- -ry longer
Now sir have I met you again? there's for you
put up your iron you are well fleshed come on
I will be free from thee What wouldst thou now?
If thou dar'st tempt me fur- -ther draw thy sword
Hold To- -by on thy life I charge thee hold
Will it be ev- -er thus? Un- -gra- -cious wretch
Fit for the moun- -tains and the bar- -barous caves
Where man- -ners ne'er were preach'd! Out of my sight!
Be not of- -fend- -ed dear Ce- -sar- -i- -o!
Let thy fair wis- -dom not thy pas- -sion sway
In this un- -civ- -il and un- -just ex- -tent
Mayst smile at this thou shalt not choose but go
He start- -ed one poor heart of mine in thee
What rel- -ish is in this? how runs the stream?
Or I am mad/ or else this is a dream
If it be thus to dream still let me sleep!
Nay come I pr'ythee Would thou'dst be ruled by me!
Be- -lieve me I am not I tell thee true
I will fetch you light and pa- -per and ink
This pearl she gave me I do feel't and see't
And though 'tis won- -der that en- -wraps me thus
Yet 'tis not mad- -ness Where's An- -to- -nio then?
That he did range the town to seek me out
For though my soul dis- -putes well with my sense
So far ex- -ceed all in- -stance all dis- -course
To any oth- -er trust but that I am mad
Or else the la- -dy's mad yet if 'twere so
Blame not this haste of mine If you mean well
And un- -der- -neath that con- -se- -crat- -ed roof
Plight me the full as- -sur- -ance of your faith
That my most jeal- -ous and too doubt- -ful soul
Whiles you are will- -ing it shall come to note
What time we will our cel- -e- -bra- -tion keep
Ac- -cord- -ing to my birth. hat do you say?
I'll fol- -low this good man and go with you
And hav- -ing sworn truth ev- -er will be true
That they may fair- -ly note this act of mine!
Be- -long you to the La- -dy Olivia friend- -s?
Just the con- -trary the bet- -ter for thy friends
Thou shalt not be the worse for me there's gold
Here comes the man sir that did res- -cue me
That face of his I do re- -mem- -ber well
Yet when I saw it last it was be- -smeared
As black as Vul- -can in the smoke of war
A baw- -bling ves- -sel was he cap- -tain of
With which such scath- -ful grap- -ple did he make
With the most no- -ble bot- -tom of our fleet
That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Can- -dy
He did me kind- -ness sir drew on my side
I know not what 't- -was but dis- -trac- -tion
That most in- -grate- -ful boy there by your side
Did I re- -deem a wreck past hope he was
His life I gave him and did there- -to add
My love with- -out re- -ten- -tion or re- -straint
All his in ded- -i- -ca- -tion for his sake
Did I ex- -pose my- -self pure for his love
In- -to the dan- -ger of this ad- -verse town
Drew to de- -fend him when he was be- -set
While one would wink de- -nied me mine own purse
Which I had rec- -om- -mend- -ed to his use
Both day and night did we keep com- -pa- -ny
Three months this youth hath tend- -ed up- -on me
What would my lord but that he may not have
Ce- -sario you do not keep prom- -ise with me
My lord would speak my du- -ty hush- -es me
If it be aught to the old tune my lord
It is as fat and ful- -some to mine ear
To whose in- -grate and unaus- -pi- -cious al- -tars
Like to the Egyp- -tian thief at point of death
Since you to non- -re- -gar- -dance cast my faith
And that I part- -ly know the in- -stru- -ment
That screws me from my true place in your favour
But this your min- -ion whom I know you love
Him will I tear out of that cru- -el eye
I'll sac- -ri- -fice the lamb that I do love
And I most jo- -cund apt and will- -ing- -ly
To do you rest a thou- -sand deaths would die
More than I love these eyes more than my life
More by all mores than e'er I shall love wife
Pun- -ish my life for taint- -ing of my love!
Ah me de- -test- -ed! how am I be- -guil'd!
Who does be- -guile you? who does do you wrong?
Hast thou for- -got thy- -self? Is it so long?
Be that thou know'st thou art and then thou art
As great as that thou fear'st wel- -come fa- -ther!
Fa- -ther I charge thee by thy rev- -er- -ence
To keep in dark- -ness what oc- -ca- -sion now
Re- -veals be- -fore 'tis ripe, hat thou dost know
Hath new- -ly passed be- -tween this youth and me
Strength- -en'd by in- -ter- -change- -ment of your rings
O thou dis- -sem- -bling cub! What wilt thou be
When time hath sowed a griz- -zle on thy case?
Or will not else thy craft so quick- -ly grow
Where thou and I hence- -forth may nev- -er meet
Hold lit- -tle faith though thou has too much fear
You drew your sword up- -on me with- -out cause
But I be- -spake you fair and hurt you not
But had it been the broth- -er of my blood
I do per- -ceive it hath of- -fend- -ed you
One face one voice one habit and two per- -sons
How have the hours rack- -'d and tor- -tur'd me
How have you made di- -vi- -sion of your- -self?
An ap- -ple cleft in two is not more twin
Than these two crea- -tures Which is Se- -bas- -tian?
Of Mes- -saline Se- -bas- -tian was my fa- -ther
Such a Se- -bas- -tian was my broth- -er too
So went he suit- -ed to his wa- -tery tomb
If spir- -its can as- -sume both form and suit
But am in that di- -men- -sion gross- -ly clad
Which from the womb I did par- -tic- -i- -pate
Were you a wom- -an as the rest goes even
I should my tears let fall up- -on your cheek
My fa- -ther had a mole up- -on his brow
That day that made my sis- -ter thir- -teen years
If noth- -ing lets to make us hap- -py both
Do not em- -brace me till each cir- -cum- -stance
Of place time for- -tune do co- -here and jump
That I am Vi- -o- -la which to con- -firm
I'll bring you to a cap- -tain in this town
I was pre- -serv'd to serve this no- -ble count
All the oc- -cur- -rence of my for- -tune since
Hath been be- -tween this la- -dy and this lord
You would have been con- -tract- -ed to a maid
Nor are you there- -in by my life de- -ceived
You are be- -troth'd both to a maid and man
If this be so as yet the glass seems true
I shall have share in this most hap- -py wreck
Thou nev- -er shouldst love wom- -an like to me
And all those swear- -ings keep as true in soul
And let me see thee in thy wom- -an's weeds
The cap- -tain that did bring me first on shore
He shall en- -large him: etch Malvo- -lio hith- -er
They say poor gen- -tle- -man he's much dis- -tract
A most ex- -tract- -ing fren- -zy of mine own
From my re- -mem- -brance clear- -ly ban- -ished his
thus there- -fore per- -pend my princess and give ear
Here at my house and at my prop- -er cost
And since you called me mas- -ter for so long
Here is my hand you shall from this time be
You must not now de- -ny it is your hand
Write from it if you can in hand or phrase
You can say none of this Well grant it then
And tell me in the mod- -esty of hon- -our
To put on yel- -low stock- -ings and to frown
Up- -on Sir To- -by and the lighter peo- -ple
And act- -ing this in an obe- -di- -ent hope
That e'er in- -ven- -tion played on? tell me why
Though I con- -fess much like the char- -ac- -ter
And now I do be- -think me it was she
And in such forms which here were pre- -sup- -pos'd
Thou shalt be both the plain- -tiff and the judge
And let no quar- -rel nor no brawl to come
Most freely I con- -fess my- -self and To- -by
I'll be re- -venged on the whole pack of you
He hath been most no- -to- -ri- -ous- -ly abus'd
Pur- -sue him and en- -treat him to a peace
He hath not told us of the cap- -tain yet
When that is known and gold- -en time con- -vents
Of our dear soul- -s. ean- -time sweet sis- -ter
For so you shall be while you are a man
When that I was and a lit- -tle tiny boy
